Code: AIRS 1101
Title: Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force I
Description: This is a survey course designed to introduce students to the Department of the Air Force (DAF) and provides an overview of the basic characteristics, missions, and organization of the Air and Space Forces.

Code: AIRS 1111
Title: Special Operations Selection Prep Course
Description: This program is designed to prepare students interested in joining the US Air Force Special Tactics Squadron Selection Course and the Special Tactics Officer (STO) / Combat Rescue Officer (CRO) Selection Course. It is also suitable for those interested in similar programs offered by the Marine Corps, Navy, and Army Special Warfare Programs. The program is open to any Cornell student who is looking to improve their physical fitness and engage in a unique and challenging fitness operation. This program is a high-volume, moderate-intensity curriculum that targets all areas of movement and energy systems. Its goal is to prepare individuals for the Special Warfare Selection Course by developing physical readiness, water confidence, leadership skills, nutritional foundation, spiritual readiness, and mental fortitude. The program takes a holistic approach to training, enhancing overall performance, and fostering essential skills and characteristics to succeed in the Special Warfare domain.

Code: AIRS 1141
Title: Initial Military Experiences I
Description: Introduction to the responsibilities, life, and work of an Air Force officer. Basic knowledge of drill and ceremonies, military courtesies, and the wearing of the uniform.

Code: AIRS 2201
Title: Team and Leadership Fundamentals I
Description: This course focuses on laying the foundation for teams and leadership. The topics include skills that will allow cadets to improve their leadership on a personal level and within a team. The courses will prepare cadets for their field training experience where they will be able to put the concepts learned into practice. The purpose is to instill a leadership mindset and to motivate sophomore students to transition from AFROTC cadet to AFROTC officer candidate.

Code: AIRS 2241
Title: Intermediate Military Experiences I
Description: Designed to help students develop skill in giving commands for drill and ceremonies. Students are also introduced to the Air Force base environment in which the officer functions. Career areas available based on academic majors are described. Students participate in military drills and ceremonies.

Code: AIRS 3301
Title: Leading People and Effective Communication I
Description: This course teaches cadets advanced skills and knowledge in management and leadership. Special emphasis is placed on enhancing leadership skills and communication. Cadets have an opportunity to try out these leadership and management techniques in a supervised environment as juniors and seniors.

Code: AIRS 3341
Title: Junior Officer Leadership Experiences I
Description: Cadets assume leadership responsibilities similar to those of a junior officer. Emphasis is on the importance of applying effective human relations skills in dealing with superiors, peers, and subordinates. Cadets also gain insight into the general structure and progression patterns of selected Air Force officer career fields.

Code: AIRS 4401
Title: National Security Affairs: Preparation for Active Duty I
Description: This course is designed for college seniors and gives them the foundation to understand their role as military officers in American society. It is an overview of the complex social and political issues facing the military profession and requires a measure of sophistication commensurate with the senior college level. The final semester provides information that will prepare the cadets for Active Duty.

Code: AIRS 4441
Title: Advanced Leadership Experiences
Description: Cadets assume command leadership responsibilities to operate a military organization. Cadets apply effective leadership and managerial techniques with individuals and groups and participate in self-analysis of leadership and managerial abilities.

