Code: ANSC 1101
Title: Contemporary Perspectives in Animal Science
Description: This course offers an opportunity for incoming students to gain an appreciation for the range of issues and topics available in the Animal Science major. Faculty will present their current research and outreach activity as a means to engage students in current issues and to introduce possibilities for future research experience.

Code: ANSC 1130
Title: Introduction to Captive Raptor Husbandry
Description: This course will provide students with an introduction to captive raptor management. The course structure will include a weekly classroom lecture and a complementary hands-on laboratory training session utilizing resident birds of prey and facilities of the Cornell Raptor Program. Topics of instruction will include natural history and adaptations of various bird of prey species, safe handling of captive raptors, nutritional requirements, health care, behavior and training, and the ethics of maintaining captive raptors. Course will include animal handling and chores related to raptor care.

Code: ANSC 1200
Title: Contemporary Dairy Industry Topics and Issues
Description: This course is designed to expose students to current topics and issues in the U.S. and global dairy industry to create awareness and provide opportunities for developing critical thinking skills in problem solving related to dairy food production.

Code: ANSC 1500
Title: Biology of Cats and Dogs: No Woof and Meow About It
Description: The purpose of this course is to provide students with core principles of science through the study of cat and dog biology. The course is divided into three modules: 1) The evolution and genetics, 2) Physiology and life cycles, 3) Nutrition and energy requirements. The course will be a combination of short lectures, in-class exercises based on readings and lectures, weekly workshops to reflect and develop arguments related to material covered in lectures, and case-studies at the end of each module. This course is suitable for non-life sciences majors.

Code: ANSC 2120
Title: Animal Nutrition
Description: Introduction to animal nutrition, including digestive physiology and metabolism of domestic animals and other species, nutrient properties and requirements for different aspects of animal production and performance, and principles of feed evaluation and ration formulation. Laboratory classes include gastrointestinal tract dissections and nutritional experiments performed on laboratory or farm animal species.

Code: ANSC 2170
Title: Public Communication in Animal Science
Description: This course provides students an opportunity to enhance public literacy of animal agriculture using social media. Students will work as a team to (i) assess community gaps in knowledge of animal production through social media research and public community survey, (ii) interview animal scientists, farmers, or others within livestock industries to hear their perspective, (iii) develop a written narrative to provide scientific knowledge and clarity to a diverse community audience, (iv) critique their narration to identify potentially controversial dialogue and refine as necessary to ensure their communication is evidence-based, (v) audio record and edit their finalized narrative and integrate with pre-recorded interviews to create a "Ruminate On This" podcast episode, and (vi) develop alternative social media content (e.g., Twitter) to support their public engagement.

Code: ANSC 2300
Title: Introduction to Domestic Mammalian Behavior
Description: An introduction to the behavior of domestic mammals and how behavior relates to management and welfare. Course explores both normal and abnormal behavior of farm and companion animal species. Some discussion of how these behaviors relate to animal welfare is involved but behavior, its development, and it purpose within and across species, is the main focus.

Code: ANSC 2500
Title: Dairy Cattle Principles
Description: Introduction to the background and scientific principles relating to dairy cattle production. Laboratories are designed to provide an understanding of dairy cattle production.

Code: ANSC 2550
Title: Dairy Study Trip to Italy
Description: In this course, students will be introduced to the Italian dairy industry, the various cheeses produced in the country and the culture around the cheese related to the region of production. This course is the first part of a three-part course to complement ANSC 2551 (a 8-10 day trip to Italy) and ANSC 2552 (reflection of the trip and concepts learned).

Code: ANSC 2650
Title: Equine Biology and Management
Description: Provides the basics of equine form, function, care, management, and handling. Students learn the basic biology of the horse and how to apply this knowledge to solve problems in horse care. Hands-on labs include safe handling techniques, basic groundwork, applied anatomy, and more. Short trips and tours illustrate applied concepts in the horse industry and equine health care.

Code: ANSC 3000
Title: Avian Physiology and Management
Description: This course covers avian evolution and taxonomy, behavior, husbandry, and major physiological systems (e.g., skeletal, digestive, reproductive). Lecture material is reinforced with anatomical software and pigeon dissection lab. Use of avian model organisms in research is explored through study of scientific literature. Additional lectures explain the unique characteristics and management of different domesticated and exotic avian species. Students gain hands-on experience managing agricultural waterfowl through fieldtrips and the "Morrison's Fowl Farm" component of the course. Over the course of ten weeks, students perform chores and raise ducklings from two different breeds of duck selected for meat production. Students collect and analyze data for use in a final written research project in which they compare growth rate, carcass weight, and profitability of the two breeds.

Code: ANSC 3540
Title: Dairy Cattle Herd Health
Description: This course will introduce students to dairy herd health concepts and strategies for achieving health, productivity, and profitability goals through management.  Health and performance monitoring by the use of dairy records, disease prevention, and evidence-based approaches to management will be stressed.  Students should expect to develop their knowledge of dairy cattle diseases and health, acquire skills for implementing dairy herd management programs, and strengthen their abilities to problem solve and communicate in group settings.

Code: ANSC 3560
Title: International Dairy Study Trip
Description: This course is designed to prepare students for the intensive 8-10 day study trip (ANSC 3561) designed for exposure to a variety of dairy related agricultural production approaches in the country of interest. Topics will include dairy management, environmental regulations, profitability, related government support programs and the role of cultures impact on production.

Code: ANSC 3800
Title: Sheep
Description: Breeding, feeding, management, and selection of sheep. Lectures and laboratories are designed to give students practical knowledge of managing sheep for meat, milk, and wool production as well as the scientific background for improving management practices. Students spend several days during the semester feeding and caring for ewes and their newborn lambs and milking ewes in a dairy setting.

Code: ANSC 4110
Title: Integrated Cattle Nutrition
Description: Integrates concepts of cattle nutrition and farm nutritional management to help students understand and appreciate factors influencing the performance of cattle under diverse conditions. Topics include the effect of environment on maintenance costs; the nutrient requirements for various stages of growth, lactation, and pregnancy; rumen function; feed composition and chemistry; nutrient partitioning; and the environmental impacts of cattle and how to minimize them. Computer models (Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System) are used in the laboratory to actualize the information presented in lectures. Herd case studies are used in lab and there are field trips to farms to evaluate the nutritional management.

Code: ANSC 4200
Title: Nutrition of Cats and Dogs
Description: The purpose of this course is to provide students with a solid foundation of knowledge on cat and dog nutrition to prepare them for careers in animal nutrition research, veterinary medicine, and the pet food industry. The course is divided into 5 modules. The first part of the course discusses ingredient and nutrient requirements of felids and canids by teaching students to integrate knowledge of evolutionary feeding habits, gastrointestinal anatomy, digestive processes, and nutrient metabolism. The second part covers practical feedings through the teaching of feed ingredient sourcing and processing, and the pet food manufacturing regulations. The third focusses on metabolic disorders of nutrient metabolism. Learning activities consist of daily student reflections, designing hypothesis-driven questions, discussing peer-reviewed articles, and presenting a final project.

Code: ANSC 4270
Title: Fundamentals of Endocrinology
Description: Physiology and regulation of endocrine secretions. Emphasizes neuroendocrine, reproductive, growth, and metabolic aspects of endocrinology. Examples are selected from many animals, including humans.

Code: ANSC 4310
Title: Animal Genomics and Epigenomics
Description: Animal Genomics and Epigenomics provides a foundation in functional genomics, epigenomics, and basic bioinformatics. It is designed to facilitate mastery of advanced techniques in genomics and their applications to animal biology, health, and production. The course consists of weekly lectures covering basic concepts and weekly workshops (computer labs or journal discussion). Workshops consist of exercises and discussions to provide students with hands-on experience performing basic genomic analyses. Students will become familiar with the UCSC genome browser, databases, and basic bioinformatic tools. Students will work in groups on a final project and develop research goals to study function(s) of a specific gene of interest.

Code: ANSC 4510
Title: Dairy Herd Business Management
Description: Emphasizes dairy herd business management with application to herd management analysis. Laboratory includes farm tours and analysis.

Code: ANSC 4880
Title: Global Food, Energy, and Water Nexus – Engage the US, China, and India for Sustainable Future
Description: This course is offered by six Departments at Cornell, in collaboration with five Universities in China and India. Video conferencing will be used to connect classrooms in the three countries in real time. Important issues related to the food, energy, and water nexus and its implications for nutrition security, one health, environmental sustainability,climate change, and economic development in the US, China, India, and other countries will be described. Challenges associated with these issues will be evaluated and strategies to address them will be proposed. Engagement of these countries with each other and the rest of the world will be explored. The course serves as a platform for students from Cornell, China, and India to learn from and interact with each other in the same class, and to share their thinking, creativity, and perspectives on these issues.

Code: ANSC 4960
Title: Internship in Animal Science
Description: Structured, on-the-job learning experience under supervision of qualified professionals in a cooperating organization (e.g., farm, agribusiness, pharmaceutical company, zoo, educational institution). Internships are arranged by the student and must be approved in advance by the student's academic advisor. The internship should provide a professionally supervised experience with at least 60 hours on the job per credit required. All ANSC 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship.

Code: ANSC 4970
Title: Individual Study in Animal Science
Description: May include individual tutorial study or a lecture topic selected by a professor. Because topics may change, the course may be repeated for credit.

Code: ANSC 4980
Title: Undergraduate Teaching in Animal Science
Description: Designed to consolidate the student's knowledge. A participating student assists in teaching a course allied with his or her education and experience. The student is expected to meet regularly with a discussion or laboratory section, to gain teaching experience, and regularly to discuss teaching objectives, techniques, and subject matter with the professor in charge.

Code: ANSC 4990
Title: Undergraduate Research in Animal Science
Description: Affords opportunities for students to carry out independent research under appropriate supervision. Each student is expected to review pertinent literature, prepare a project outline, conduct the research, and prepare a report.

Code: ANSC 5220
Title: MPS Professional Development Seminar
Description: This course is designed to train students in the Master of Professional Studies program in communication and presentation skills needed for future careers. Each student will present several times on their capstone project. Advice, feedback, and peer-evaluation will be provided to each presenter. This course also aims to foster collegiality, expand knowledge, and promote professional development among graduate students in a broad context within this diverse field.

Code: ANSC 5310
Title: Animal Genomics and Epigenomics
Description: Animal Genomics and Epigenomics provides a foundation in functional genomics, epigenomics, and basic bioinformatics. It is designed to facilitate mastery of advanced techniques in genomics and their applications to animal biology, health, and production. The course consists of weekly lectures covering basic concepts and weekly workshops (computer labs or journal discussion). Workshops consist of exercises and discussions to provide students with hands-on experience performing basic genomic analyses. Students will become familiar with the UCSC genome browser, databases, and basic bioinformatic tools. Students will work in groups on a final project and develop research goals to study function(s) of a specific gene of interest.

Code: ANSC 5540
Title: Dairy Cattle Herd Health
Description: This course will introduce students to dairy herd health concepts and strategies for achieving health, productivity, and profitability goals through management. Health and performance monitoring by the use of dairy records, disease prevention, and evidence-based approaches to management will be stressed. Students should expect to develop their knowledge of dairy cattle diseases and health, acquire skills for implementing dairy herd management programs, and strengthen their abilities to problem solve and communicate in group settings.

Code: ANSC 6110
Title: Integrated Cattle Nutrition
Description: Integrates concepts of cattle nutrition and farm nutritional management to help students understand and appreciate factors influencing the performance of cattle under diverse conditions. Topics include the effect of environment on maintenance costs; the nutrient requirements for various stages of growth, lactation, and pregnancy; rumen function; feed composition and chemistry; nutrient partitioning; and the environmental impacts of cattle and how to minimize them. Computer models (Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System) are used in the laboratory to actualize the information presented in lectures. Herd case studies are used in lab and there are field trips to farms to evaluate the nutritional management.

Code: ANSC 6190
Title: Division of Nutritional Sciences Seminar
Description: Lectures on current research in nutrition.

Code: ANSC 6200
Title: Nutrition of Cats and Dogs
Description: The purpose of this course is to provide students with a solid foundation of knowledge on cat and dog nutrition to prepare them for careers in animal nutrition research, veterinary medicine, and the pet food industry. The course is divided into 5 modules. The first part of the course discusses ingredient and nutrient requirements of felids and canids by teaching students to integrate knowledge of evolutionary feeding habits, gastrointestinal anatomy, digestive processes, and nutrient metabolism. The second part covers practical feedings through the teaching of feed ingredient sourcing and processing, and the pet food manufacturing regulations. The third focusses on metabolic disorders of nutrient metabolism. Learning activities consist of daily student reflections, designing hypothesis-driven questions, discussing peer-reviewed articles, and presenting a final project.

Code: ANSC 6220
Title: Graduate Student Research Updates
Description: This course is designed to train Animal Science graduate students in communication/presentation skills needed to support a career in scientific research. Each student will present an update on research progress/plan towards his or her dissertation/thesis. Advice, feedback and peer-evaluation will be provided to each presenter. Focused discussions examining research areas of particular interest to each student on research methods, existing theories and/or controversies will be considered. This course also aims to foster collegiality, expand knowledge and promote professional development among graduate students in a broad context within this diverse field.

Code: ANSC 6230
Title: Reproductive Biology Journal Club
Description: This course offers students with strong interest in reproductive biology a platform to extend the depth and breadth of their knowledge in reproductive science and technology. It also provides an opportunity for students to advance their critical assessment of current literature, and to practice scientific presentation in reproductive biology.

Code: ANSC 6270
Title: Fundamentals of Endocrinology
Description: Physiology and regulation of endocrine secretions. Emphasizes neuroendocrine, reproductive, growth, and metabolic aspects of endocrinology. Examples are selected from many animals, including humans.

Code: ANSC 6400
Title: Graduate-Level Individual Study in Animal Science
Description: Graduate individual study in Animal Science under the direction of one or more faculty members.

Code: ANSC 6510
Title: Dairy Herd Business Management
Description: Emphasizes dairy herd business management with application to herd management analysis. Laboratory includes farm tours and analysis.

Code: ANSC 6880
Title: Global Food, Energy, and Water Nexus – Engage the US, China, and India for Sustainable Future
Description: This course is offered by six Departments at Cornell, in collaboration with five Universities in China and one India. Video conferencing will be used to connect classrooms in the three countries in real time. Important issues related to the food, energy, and water nexus and its implications for nutrition security, one health, environmental sustainability, climate change, and economic development in the US and these two countries will be described. Challenges associated with these issues will be evaluated and strategies to address them will be proposed. Engagement of these countries with each other and the rest of the world will be explored. The course serves as a platform for students from Cornell, China, and India to learn from and interact with each other in the same class, and to share their thinking, creativity, and perspectives on these issues.

Code: ANSC 7570
Title: Current Concepts in Reproductive Biology
Description: For description and learning outcomes, see ANSC 7570.

Code: ANSC 7900
Title: Graduate-Level Thesis Research
Description: Thesis research for Ph.D. students only before "A" exam has been passed.

Code: ANSC 8900
Title: Master's Level Thesis Research
Description: Thesis research for master's students.

Code: ANSC 9900
Title: Doctoral-Level Thesis Research
Description: Thesis research for Ph.D. candidates after "A" exam has been passed.

