Code: ART 1504
Title: Introduction to Drawing in Rome
Description: This course introduces students to principles and techniques of representation. Emphasis is on creating the illusion of space and form through line, the rendering of light and shade, and studies in perspective. Students have the opportunity to explore various media such as charcoal, chalk, pencil, pen, ink, and wash. Assumes no prior knowledge of drawing.

Code: ART 1602
Title: Introduction to Photography in Rome
Description: Drawing on Rome's historic and contemporary resources for inspiration, this course introduces photography as a means to visual interpretation and authorship. It addresses concepts essential to lens based artistic practice, as well as the technical foundations of digital photography. In this course students learn about diverse approaches to image making with the camera, and develop a body of work referencing their Rome experience. The course includes lectures, critiques, studio assignments, and visits to museums, galleries, and photography studios.

Code: ART 2201
Title: Painting: Language of Painting
Description: This course is an introduction to understanding how the embodied process of painting can create meaning and resonance and provide possibilities of expression where words are not sufficient. Through focus on color theory and pictorial composition, students will explore ways to build their own visual vocabulary while gaining technical facility and knowledge of materials and processes.

Code: ART 2301
Title: Print Media: The Cultures of Print
Description: This is an inclusive course that offers an expanded study of traditional printmaking processes through experimental print media. Print media is a critical practice grounded in the history of all printed matter and the printed form as a social medium. Students will participate in a comprehensive range of technical and aesthetic approaches centered in a range of strategies including the art work as multiple, digital and cultural production.

Code: ART 2401
Title: Introduction to Sculpture
Description: This course introduces students to artistic practice in three dimensions using a variety of materials and approaches. Problems require the student to address materials in terms of cultural and historical context. Assumes no prior knowledge of sculpture.

Code: ART 2501
Title: Drawing: Contemporary Art Practice Through Drawing
Description: This course provides students entering the B.F.A. program a gateway to contemporary art practice through drawing.  Drawing here is conceived both as a self-sufficient medium and as a tool useful for the conceptual and practical development of ideas in other media.  A wide range of technically and conceptually conceived assignments will introduce students to the breadth of contemporary practice and drawing itself.

Code: ART 2601
Title: Photography: Introduction to Photography
Description: This course explores camera and lens as devices that frame and translate three-dimensional space to a two-dimensional surface. Through assignments and individual investigation, students acquire a deeper understanding of visual perception and photography as medium for personal expression. This course introduces students to photographic processes and assumes no prior knowledge of photography.

Code: ART 2701
Title: Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Intersections
Description: This interdisciplinary course offers an introduction to the methods employed in media arts, sound and performance. It provides a comprehensive exploration of the strategies and historical context of these disciplines. Students will engage in an interdisciplinary studio setting with a specific focus on one of these areas. Through hands-on experience, they will delve into contemporary artistic practices, honing their technical skills to develop and realize their creative projects. Potential topics covered include video and animation, digital image production, sound art, performance art, and movement

Code: ART 2900
Title: Shop and Tech
Description: This course gives undergraduate B.F.A. students introductory experience in the usage and safe practices of Cornell AAP's machine fabrication and digital media facilities. At the end of this semester B.F.A. students will be able to apply basic shop and technology knowledge and skills into their classwork and individual creative work.

Code: ART 2907
Title: Visual Imaging in the Electronic Age
Description: Interdisciplinary survey course designed to introduce students in the creative arts, science, and engineering to the concepts of 2D and 3D digital pictorial representation and display. It is a concept course that concentrates on "why" rather than "how." Topics include perspective representations, display technology, how television works, bandwidth concepts, digital photography, computer graphics modeling and rendering, color perception, 3D data acquisition, volumetric imaging, and historical precedents, primarily from the art world.

Code: ART 3001
Title: Rome Studio
Description: This class will concentrate on the development, through research and material experimentation, of a studio practice informed by historical and social context. Different research and production methodologies will be encouraged to develop a practice that is critical, self-sustaining, and flexible. Specific attention will be paid to implications of transferring artistic practice to Rome, i.e., the way the specificities and generalities of a new geographical setting inform one's work. Required course for B.F.A. students participating in Rome.

Code: ART 3091
Title: Directed Readings in Art
Description: Independent reading allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.

Code: ART 3092
Title: Independent Studio in Art
Description: Independent studio allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.

Code: ART 3093
Title: Directed Research in Art
Description: Independent research allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of a faculty member.

Code: ART 3102
Title: Contemporary Rome Seminar
Description: Introduces students to contemporary art in Rome through studio visits, gallery exhibitions, and museum collections. Lectures by artists, critics, and others. Traces art from idea to realization and explores the gallery and its relationship to artists and to promotion of art, the role of the art critic and museum, and art collecting.

Code: ART 3299
Title: Painting: Special Topics
Description: Topics TBA.

Code: ART 3301
Title: Print Media: Belonging and Representation: Relinking to Site and Unfolding the Dynamics of Display
Description: In this course, students visit campus facilities and regional sites to learn and gather information about their cultural location. These visits will be contextualized by issues of public and private space, land use, and history of place. Students plan projects in response to site visits and use the print studio as an intermediary space for production based on this research. The course concludes with an exhibition installation in the college galleries or specific sites.

Code: ART 3307
Title: Print Media: To Publish is to Make Publics
Description: This class will explore the potential of printed media to bridge the gap between public and private modes of address. This course will integrate theory, history and practice. On the production side, we will learn how to use a Risograph printer to make high volume editions and book binding techniques. On the historical side, we will study histories of printmaking as they relate to social and political movements. On the theoretical side, the course will be contextualized through readings that will expand our understanding of what we mean by public, private and circulation. This course welcomes all and any student regardless of their previous print or image making experience.

Code: ART 3404
Title: Sculpture: Installation
Description: Site-specific installations will be mediated through a variety of materials and individual and collaborative research. This course expands an awareness of traditional (welding, metal casting) and non-traditional materials (papermaking, rubber, fabric) though figurative modeling, abstract carving, and three-dimensional form and design.

Code: ART 3501
Title: Drawing: Pictorial Languages
Description: This course explores the capacity of drawing to visualize complex representations, experience and informational systems using a wide range of materials and formats. Students pursue both experimental and more developed individual, serial, and collaborative drawing projects that challenge and question the conventional boundaries of drawing.

Code: ART 3699
Title: Photography: Special Topics
Description: Advanced studio course related to photography. Topics vary each semester.

Code: ART 3705
Title: Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Sound
Description: This advanced class will continue the investigation of ways of using sound in the creation of an artwork. Methods of using sound in disciplines outside of art will shape our considerations. Historical approaches to sound art to contemporary experiments using sound will be examined in this studio course.

Code: ART 3803
Title: Art History: Italian Cinema
Description: This course examines the cinematic representation of Italy with particular emphasis to the use of settings and space. We will explore how the visions of urban and rural spaces reflect the evolving cultural, social and political fabric of a nation in a period of rapid and often traumatic historical change. The course will feature screening of films set in several Italian locations, from Rome to Milan, from Naples to Venice, from Sicily to the Apennines, and represent different moments of Italian contemporary history. We will take advantage of the unique opportunity to study this cinema while residing in Rome and traveling in Italy, through the experience of the real settings that have figured so prominently in Italian cinema. Each session consists of an in-class lecture and a film screening. The course will also include one or two guest lecturers each semester.

Code: ART 3804
Title: Black Sound and Visual Culture
Description: In this interdisciplinary seminar, we will study the strategies that sound artists, composers, visual artists, writers, and filmmakers have employed to use Black sounds as a sign. We will explore intersections between sound and image throughout the African diaspora. Intersections in question include the place of sound art within different Black musical and visual traditions, Black music as a resource for painting and sculpture, the visual design of Black music projects, the Black soundscape and the built environment, acoustic ecology and mapping in Black communities, and African diasporic filmmaking as a sonic art form.

Code: ART 3874
Title: Indigenous Spaces and Materiality
Description: The materiality of art as willful agents will be considered from ontology to an Indigenous expression of "more than human relations." Located at the intersection of multiple modernities, art and science; the shift from art historical framings of form over matter and connoisseurship to viewing materiality as an active process that continues to map larger social processes and transformation will be discussed. Archives will be sites of investigation across varied Indigenous geographies marking place, space, bodies and land. This class is designed to introduce the latest methodologies in the field of art history, material culture and Indigenous Studies. Students will consult the archive, do hands-on evaluation of art, material culture, and expand their historic and theoretical knowledge about materiality. Beyond the theoretically and historically grounded critique this class provides, it will also introduce students to working with original documents and / or conduct on-site research. Students will consult the Cornell University library holdings of the Huntington Free Library's Native American Collection and conduct original archival research with historic and contemporary art and material culture at Haudenosaunee cultural centers, museums and exhibitions spaces through a class trip or individual visits (TBD).

Code: ART 4003
Title: Thesis I
Description: This course continues the independent studio research and production of the Advanced Practice course to prepare students for ART 4004 - Thesis II. During Thesis I, students begin to research, develop, and clarify their thesis proposals through dialogues, readings, and critiques with members of the Core Thesis Faculty. Emphasis is on deepening awareness of the intention and reading of the work and situating individual interests within and against historical, theoretical, and conceptual contexts.

Code: ART 4004
Title: Thesis II
Description: This course is the final B.F.A. studio semester in which students develop and present an independent body of work that may take the form of an exhibition or some other project. Students will work with members of the Core Thesis Faculty to define and refine the positions formulated within each work and to foster the ability to speak about one's own work as well as the work of others. Emphasis is placed on developing strategies of productive self-criticality to inform their work both during and beyond the thesis semester.

Code: ART 4100
Title: Senior Seminar
Description: This advanced seminar is designed to accompany the first semester of Thesis studio. The class fosters investigation of artistic intentionality and its relation to visual expression and its discursive treatment. It begins with assignments structured to identify the conceptual, social, historical, and formal considerations relevant to each student's artistic practice. Once identified, these become the basis for rigorous research and consideration. This undertaking is designed to support advanced thesis projects and art practices going forward.

Code: ART 5092
Title: Graduate Independent Studio in Art
Description: Independent studio allows a student the opportunity to investigate special interests that are sometimes not treated in regularly scheduled courses. The student develops a plan of study to pursue under the supervision of an Art faculty member.

Code: ART 5299
Title: Painting: Special Topics
Description: Topics TBA.

Code: ART 5301
Title: Print Media: Belonging and Representation: Relinking to Site and Unfolding the Dynamics of Display
Description: In this course, students visit campus facilities and regional sites to learn and gather information about their cultural location. These visits will be contextualized by issues of public and private space, land use, and history of place. Students plan projects in response to site visits and use the print studio as an intermediary space for production based on this research. The course concludes with an exhibition installation in the college galleries or specific sites.

Code: ART 5307
Title: Print Media: To Publish is to Make Publics
Description: This class will explore the potential of printed media to bridge the gap between public and private modes of address. This course will integrate theory, history and practice. On the production side, we will learn how to use a Risograph printer to make high volume editions and book binding techniques. On the historical side, we will study histories of printmaking as they relate to social and political movements. On the theoretical side, the course will be contextualized through readings that will expand our understanding of what we mean by public, private and circulation. This course welcomes all and any student regardless of their previous print or image making experience.

Code: ART 5404
Title: Sculpture: Installation
Description: Site-specific installations will be mediated through a variety of materials and individual and collaborative research. This course expands an awareness of traditional (welding, metal casting) and non-traditional materials (papermaking, rubber, fabric) though figurative modeling, abstract carving, and three-dimensional form and design.

Code: ART 5501
Title: Drawing: Pictorial Languages
Description: This course explores the capacity of drawing to visualize complex representations, experience and informational systems using a wide range of materials and formats. Students pursue both experimental and more developed individual, serial, and collaborative drawing projects that challenge and question the conventional boundaries of drawing.

Code: ART 5699
Title: Photography: Special Topics
Description: Advanced studio course related to photography. Topics vary each semester.

Code: ART 5705
Title: Media Arts, Performance, and Sound: Sound
Description: This advanced class will continue the investigation of ways of using sound in the creation of an artwork. Methods of using sound in disciplines outside of art will shape our considerations. Historical approaches to sound art to contemporary experiments using sound will be examined in this studio course.

Code: ART 5804
Title: Black Sound and Visual Culture
Description: In this interdisciplinary seminar, we will study the strategies that sound artists, composers, visual artists, writers, and filmmakers have employed to use Black sounds as a sign. We will explore intersections between sound and image throughout the African diaspora. Intersections in question include the place of sound art within different Black musical and visual traditions, Black music as a resource for painting and sculpture, the visual design of Black music projects, the Black soundscape and the built environment, acoustic ecology and mapping in Black communities, and African diasporic filmmaking as a sonic art form.

Code: ART 6000
Title: Graduate Seminar: Contemporary Theory and Art
Description: Seminar exploring selected writings on current issues in the visual arts. Designed to introduce graduate students to several approaches to critical inquiry and analysis of contemporary artistic practice. Topics vary but may include related issues in areas such as critical theory, identity politics, institutional frames, sustainability, urbanization, and globalization.

Code: ART 6092
Title: Independent Mentored Study in Image Text
Description: Semester-long independent creative work in consultation with faculty mentor.  Critique and discussion of ongoing creative work is completed during the fall and spring semesters using video conferencing and electronic document exchange. Course plan will be crafted collaboratively by student and faculty mentor at the beginning of each semester to maximize both continued focus and new development in creative work.

Code: ART 8001
Title: Graduate Studio III
Description: Course instructor is the chair of student's Thesis Committee. Students are responsible, under faculty direction, for planning their own projects and selecting the media in which they work. All members of the faculty are available for individual consultation.

