Code: BURM 1121
Title: Elementary Burmese (Myanmar) I
Description: This course is designed to give beginning learners a solid foundation in reading and writing Burmese. Reading and writing skills are essential first steps to learning the language, and this is the only course where you will learn the script. You will also learn some basic spoken Burmese and important grammatical concepts. Some of the assignments are completed online using interactive video and audio materials.

Code: BURM 2201
Title: Intermediate Burmese (Myanmar) I
Description: This course is for you if you have taken elementary Burmese at Cornell or learned some Burmese elsewhere and know how to read and write Burmese script. You will continue learning all major aspects of the language at the intermediate level, including reading and understanding formal-style texts. Some of the assignments are completed online using interactive video and audio materials.

Code: BURM 3301
Title: Advanced Burmese (Myanmar) I
Description: This course is taught at the advanced level with focus on further development of all four skills. All materials used in the course are authentic Burmese stories, current event reports, radio plays, etc. The particular materials used in any given year may vary depending on the proficiency level of the students. For students who are involved in Burma/Myanmar related research, their projects may also become part of the course.

Code: BURM 3309
Title: Advanced Readings in Burmese (Myanmar) I
Description: This course will further advance the student's reading skills and, if needed, writing as well. Burmese texts of advanced-level complexity will be read, analyzed, and translated to English. A certain amount of discussion in Burmese is also part of the course, but the primary objective is to learn to read and understand the typical texts that appear on websites about current events, cultural trends, news from around the world, as well as short literary works by contemporary authors. Heritage speakers of Burmese as well as students who are learning Burmese as a foreign language are welcome. Reading materials are selected depending on the needs and interests of the students and differ from year to year.

