Code: COMM 1101
Title: Introduction to Communication
Description: This course will provide an introduction to the study of Communication. Topics include the functions, foundations, models, and modes of communication. Students will be introduced to research methods and begin to master the research and study skills required to be a successful scholar of communication. An overview of concepts and processes related to the functions of communication will be examined through current theoretical and empirical research.

Code: COMM 1111
Title: Navigating the Communication Major and Beyond
Description: This course introduces the Communication major and focuses on transitioning to college life, developing your academic identity, and making meaning of your college experience. You will develop a learning community, identify your support network, and explore what Cornell offers to you as a first-year Communication student. Course content will promote the development of skills for balancing academic success with extracurricular and interpersonal activities during your time in the major.

Code: COMM 1180
Title: Leading by Mentoring: Being a COMM-Unity Mentor
Description: You should take this course if you have accepted an invitation to be a COMM-Unity Project (CUP) Peer Mentor, a fall semester commitment. As a peer mentor in COMM 1180, you will build your mentoring and leadership skills as you mentor first-year underrepresented minority and first-generation undergraduate COMM students. These skills include listening and responding empathetically to student concerns; helping students to identify and find resources for their needs; modeling good study and time management skills; communicating effectively; reflecting on experiences; and articulating goals. This weekly one-hour, one-unit course will give you an opportunity to learn about resources on campus and to talk with other peer mentors about successes and challenges.

Code: COMM 1300
Title: Visual Communication
Description: Introduction to visual communication theory. Examines how visual images influence our attention, perspectives, and understanding. Constructs a visual analytic language for becoming visually aware and for thinking critically about how visual images influence us. Applies this language to visual artifacts such as photos, maps, comics, and graphs and considers how we communicate visually in various contexts (e.g., with our bodies, in scenes of strong emotion, and in human-built environments).

Code: COMM 2010
Title: Oral Communication
Description: The course focuses on face-to-face, public communication, but the principles and practices addressed transfer to all purposeful communication situations. While many assume a good speech rests in how well it is delivered, students will learn that a good speech is equally dependent on the development, structure, and integrity of one's ideas. The objectives of the course are for students to speak effectively and ethically, and listen critically.

Code: COMM 2200
Title: Media Communication
Description: Introduction to media history, industry, content, policy, process, and effects.

Code: COMM 2310
Title: Writing about Communication
Description: America's employers consistently rank the ability to communicate as one of the most important career skills for hiring and advancement. This course will strengthen your ability to craft effective written communication for a variety of formats, providing you with a skill set that is applicable in professional and academic settings. Assignments explore social science and communication concepts.

Code: COMM 2450
Title: Communication and Technology
Description: Introduces students to the Communication and Information Technologies focus area of the communication department and the Human Systems track for information science. It examines several approaches to understanding technology and its role in human behavior and society. Topics include psychological aspects of computer-mediated communication; how design plays a role in the way we interface with technology and collaborate with each other; and the ways in which communication technology is situated inside social and institutional structures and cultural formations.

Code: COMM 2990
Title: Directed Research Experience
Description: Intended for first-year and sophomore students who are new to undergraduate research. Students may be reading scientific literature, learning research techniques, or assisting with ongoing research. The faculty supervisor determines the work goals and the form of the final report.

Code: COMM 3010
Title: Writing and Producing the Narrative for Digital Media
Description: New media communication has been blurring the traditional roles of content creator and consumer. Professional communicators—such as journalists, screenwriters, advertising executives, documentarians, and podcasters—are now expected to know how to use alternative storytelling forms to reach their audiences. They need to know how to gather information through a variety of sources such as crowdsurfing and social media; quickly and efficiently write, edit, and record audio and video. This course will explore these new delivery systems and provide guided practice of emerging communication forms. Fundamentally, this course is about writing—concisely and accurately with a clear and active voice—for new digital media with a focus on the personal narrative.

Code: COMM 3065
Title: Sports Communication: Media, Marketing, Crisis and Violence
Description: This course will introduce the student to various aspects of the sports-media-audience relationship, including the history of sports and the media, the industries that constitute sports media, the audiences drawn to and affected by sports media, and the social issues that arise from sports media. It will organized around three modules: Industry, Issues & Careers.

Code: COMM 3070
Title: Communicating Today: Strategic Visual Messages
Description: In many career fields, the ability to translate complex issues into compelling messages is an important professional skill. This requires knowledge of information gathering, message strategy and product selection. In this course, students pick a topic of personal interest and create strategic communication using four of the following popular traditional and multimedia formats: press release, fact sheet, blog, webpage, news story, op-editorial, audio slideshow, short video. Research continues through the semester as needs for facts and colorful content are identified with each product. Students learn effective use of data, narrative, commentary, storytelling, images, and message enhancement. Students are encouraged, but not required, to select topics related to science or sustainability. Class covers communicating about hot-button issues, such as climate change. Instructor will help students identify venues for publications.

Code: COMM 3110
Title: Educational Psychology
Description: Educational psychology is the application of psychological principles and concepts to cases of teaching and learning. We study behavioral, cognitive, embodied, and social-cultural perspectives on learning and thinking, and we use them in planning and reflecting on weekly fieldwork outside the classroom. In the process, we become more mindful and skilled learners ourselves and better facilitators of others' learning.

Code: COMM 3140
Title: Political Journalism
Description: This course will explore the traditional dynamic and norms of political press coverage in the United States, and the impact of those patterns on both the government and the nation; some of the ways longstanding norms have recently shifted, and continue to shift; the larger historical forces and long-term trends driving those changes; and the theoretical questions, logistical challenges and ethical dilemmas these changes pose for both political journalists and those they cover. The course will equally cover the practice of political reporting, including weekly analysis and discussion of current press coverage, in-class exercises and simulations, readings from academic and journalistic sources, and visits from leading political reporters and former spokespeople able to offer a firsthand perspective on the topics.

Code: COMM 3189
Title: Taking America's Pulse: Creating and Conducting a National Opinion Poll
Description: In this course, students will design, conduct, and analyze a national-level public opinion survey. Students will determine all survey questions based on their research interests. All necessary survey research skills will be learned in the class.

Code: COMM 3250
Title: Vamos Pa'l Norte: U.S. Migration and Communication
Description: Migrants are a heterogeneous group of people (the term "migrants" is used to encompass different immigrant communities). The reasons for relocating to the United States, or another country, the conditions under which they relocate, whether they are authorized to remain in a country, their cultural backgrounds, their ethnic/racial identities, their education level, their gender identity and sexual orientation, and their socio-economic status are merely a few factors that contribute to immigrants' diverse experiences. Thus, this course will introduce us to different frameworks, research, and practices that can help us understand the important role of communication in different, U.S., migration experiences. On the one hand, communication can help mitigate some of the social and structural barriers that migrants face in the United States and elsewhere. On the other hand, communication can also exacerbate or lead to educational, economic, and health inequities among migrants. We will consider both ways in which communication can function for migrant communities. Overall, migration: (1) is a diverse area of research that can incorporate intrapersonal, interpersonal, community, organizational, institutional, cultural, and policy levels of analysis; (2) is studied using a wide range of methodologies; and (3) is affected by a variety of communication channels. The readings and content of this course primarily focus on the experiences of Latina/o/x immigrant communities in the U.S.

Code: COMM 3450
Title: Human-Computer Interaction Design
Description: This course focuses on user experience design (UX) and the life cycle of interface design from the user perspective. We will discuss key aspects of the human-centered design process: understanding, analyzing, and formalizing user needs, exploring possible design solutions to address user needs, creating prototypes to externalize design ideas, and evaluating the usability of these prototypes.

Code: COMM 3760
Title: Planning Communication Campaigns
Description: Provides a theoretical and practical overview of the audiences, messages, and evaluation of communication campaigns. The course considers common methods of data collection (e.g. in-depth interviews, surveys) and analysis of campaign-related data sources. Specific topics include: (1) campaign goals, objectives, strategies, and tactics; (2) research design and implementation; (3) audience segmentation; (4) message construction; and (5) techniques of evaluation.

Code: COMM 4260
Title: Gender and Media
Description: This seminar addresses the intersection of communication, culture, and identity through an examination of gender and the U.S. media system. After introducing students to key approaches to studying gender and mediated communication, the course will cover topics in four subunits: (1). Mediated representations of gender, sexuality, and intersectionality; (2). Diversity in media industries and gendered labor markets; (3). Gendered audiences and fan cultures; and (4). Gender, power, and identity in a digital era of communication. We will explore these topics through literature from sociology, communication and media studies, cultural studies, feminist theory, and internet/new media studies.

Code: COMM 4300
Title: Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication
Description: This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.

Code: COMM 4500
Title: Language and Technology
Description: Examines how new communication technologies affect the way we produce and understand language and modify interaction with one another. Focuses on the collaborative nature of language use and how Internet technologies affect the joint activities of speakers and listeners during the construction of meaning in conversation

Code: COMM 4760
Title: Population Health Communication
Description: This senior-level undergraduate seminar provides an overview of theory and research on communication related to population health, including strategic efforts to impact health behavior and structural environments that support health, media portrayals of health issues, and news coverage of health and social policy with impacts on the health and distribution of health in populations. Topics include: theories of behavior change and message effects, campaigns to improve behavioral and structural determinants of health, the intersection of health and politics, and implications of changes in media platforms for population health campaigns and research.

Code: COMM 4940
Title: Special Topics in Communication
Description: Study of topics in communication not otherwise provided by a department course and determined by the interest of faculty members and students. Please check department website for most up-to-date offerings.

Code: COMM 4950
Title: Communication Industries: NYComm
Description: This seminar will introduce students to the world of professional communication. Students will meet communication alumni working in media, technology, public relations, advertising, brand management, marketing, and civil service. Students will learn about alumni roles in the changing the professional communication landscape. Students will create a resume and learn interview skills, in addition to preparing an ePortfolio. At the end of the 7-week seminar, students will travel to New York City for three days to meet with alumni working in the communication fields. Previous companies visited include: Nintendo, NBCUniversal, Social Code, M Booth, AMC, OXO and the United Nations' Youth Global Leadership Foundation. The course will cover relevant background information about each company prior to the trip and will include Skype meetings with other communication and media firms before the trip to NYC, which occurs the week after Cornell's Fall Break.

Code: COMM 4960
Title: Communication Internship
Description: Students receive a structured, on-the-job learning experience under the supervision of communication professionals in cooperating organizations. A minimum of 60 hours of on-the-job work is required; the number of work hours beyond 60 is left to the discretion of the intern and the supervising company. A final project linking communication theory to practical work experience is required. All internships must be approved by the internship coordinator before the work experience segment. All COMM 4960 internship courses must adhere to the CALS guidelines at cals.cornell.edu/academics/student-research/internship. For more information about registering for credit and COMM 4960, please see https://communication.cals.cornell.edu/undergraduate-program/internship-information-0.

Code: COMM 4970
Title: Individual Study in Communication
Description: Individual study under faculty supervision. Work should concentrate on locating, assimilating, synthesizing, and reporting existing knowledge on a selected topic. Attempts to implement this knowledge in a practical application are desirable.

Code: COMM 4980
Title: Communication Teaching Experience
Description: Periodic meetings with the instructor cover realization of course objectives, evaluation of teaching methods, and student feedback. In addition to aiding with the actual instruction, each student prepares a paper on some aspect of the course.

Code: COMM 4990
Title: Independent Research
Description: Permits outstanding students to conduct laboratory or field research in communication under appropriate faculty supervision. The research should be scientific: systematic, controlled, empirical. Research goals should include description, prediction, explanation, or policy orientation and should generate new knowledge.

Code: COMM 5300
Title: Ethics in New Media, Technology, and Communication
Description: This course examines moral and ethical issues in communication, new media, and technology. Using theories and research in moral philosophy and psychology, we examine how people perceive and reason about ethical issues presented by media and technology, and how moral action is influenced by cognitive, emotional, and ethical belief systems. Issues of autonomy, transparency, harm, privacy, manipulation, justice, democracy, equality, and care are discussed. We analyze the consistency between personal and professional ethics, the importance of moral character and agency, and the translation of moral thought to ethical action, and address the development of professional and personal ethical codes of conduct and research for communication professionals in the areas of new media and technology.

Code: COMM 5660
Title: Science Communication Workshop
Description: This weekend workshop trains researchers in the sciences (including natural sciences, engineering, experimental social sciences, etc.) to communicate effectively with nonscientists such as policy makers, political stakeholders, the media, and the general public. Training activities may include role-play, reading/discussion, writing press releases and other outreach materials, and discussion with invited speakers.

Code: COMM 6310
Title: Behavior and Information Technology
Description: This course explores the behavioral foundations of communication technology and the information sciences, and the ways in which theories and methods from the behavioral sciences play a role in understanding people's use of, access to and interactions with information and communication technologies.

Code: COMM 6500
Title: Language and Technology
Description: Examines how new communication technologies affect the way we produce and understand language and modify interaction with one another. Focuses on the collaborative nature of language use and how Internet technologies affect the joint activities of speakers and listeners during the construction of meaning in conversation.

Code: COMM 6800
Title: Studies in Communication
Description: Reviews classical and contemporary readings in communication, including key concepts and areas of investigation. Explores the scope of the field, the interrelationships of its various branches, and examines the role of theory in the research process.

Code: COMM 6820
Title: Quantitative Research Methods
Description: Analyzes methods of communication research based on a social science foundation. Goals are to understand processes and rationales for qualitative, textual, survey, and experimental methods. Students gain experience with some of these methods through modest individual or group research projects and critiques of selected contemporary communication studies.

Code: COMM 6840
Title: Theory & Research in Group Comm & Decision Making
Description: Graduate seminar focusing on theory and research in communication and decision-making in small groups. Emphasis is on task-oriented groups. Topics include information exchange, decision-making processes, types of tasks, social influence, group development processes, group support systems, intergroup processes, and leadership. Special attention is given to methodological challenges in group research.

Code: COMM 7970
Title: Graduate Independent Study
Description: Individual study concentrating on locating, assimilating, synthesizing, and reporting existing knowledge on a selected topic.

Code: COMM 7990
Title: Graduate Research
Description: Small-group or individual research based on original, empirical, data-based designs regarding topical issues in communication not otherwise examined in a graduate field course.

Code: COMM 9900
Title: Doctoral-Level Dissertation Research
Description: Dissertation research for Ph.D. candidates.

