Code: ENGRG 1002
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: ENGRD 2020
Description: Peer-facilitated group sessions focused on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in ENGRD 2020/MAE 2020.

Code: ENGRG 1009
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CHEM 2090
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CHEM 2090. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CHEM 2090.

Code: ENGRG 1010
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 1110
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 1110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 1110.

Code: ENGRG 1011
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 2110
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 2110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 2110.

Code: ENGRG 1012
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 1112
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 1112 . Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 1112.

Code: ENGRG 1028
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 2800
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 2800. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 2800.

Code: ENGRG 1031
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 3110
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 3110. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 3110.

Code: ENGRG 1034
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: CS 3410
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for CS 3410. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in CS 3410.

Code: ENGRG 1050
Title: Engineering Seminar
Description: First-year engineering students meet in groups weekly with their faculty advisors. Discussions may include the engineering curriculum and student programs, what engineers do, the character of engineering careers, active research areas in the college and in engineering in general, and study and examination skills useful for engineering students. Groups may visit campus academic, engineering, and research facilities.

Code: ENGRG 1091
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 1910
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 1910. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 1910.

Code: ENGRG 1092
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 1920
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 1920. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 1920.

Code: ENGRG 1093
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 2930
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 2930. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 2930.

Code: ENGRG 1094
Title: AEW Collaborative Workshop: MATH 2940
Description: Academic Excellence Workshop for MATH 2940. Weekly two-hour collaborative learning sessions. Peer-facilitated group works on problems at or above the level of course material, designed to enhance understanding of core concepts in MATH 2940.

Code: ENGRG 1152
Title: Coaching and Mentoring for Professional and Student Success
Description: This class will help you engineer your life to get the most out of your undergraduate experience now while building foundational professional skills for the future. Meetings with an assigned engineering alumni mentor-coach will expand your network and give you a window into the non-technical aspects of the practice of engineering. Class sessions provide tools for strategic decision-making about the many opportunities you have at Cornell to develop teamwork, leadership, and related skills. Through COMPASS, you will gain a clear sense of your values, interests, strengths, and areas for development as well as a plan for the remainder of your Cornell experience.

Code: ENGRG 1400
Title: Engineering Project Team Onboarding
Description: Students who are joining an Engineering Project Team for the first time will be introduced to the program and to information and skills needed for success as a project team member.  Topics will include a broad orientation to the Engineering Project Teams, safety, communication, giving and accepting feedback, and expectations for culture and behavior.  Students may enroll concurrently with one or two credits of additional team-specific project team coursework. The course is intended for and required of all new project team members.

Code: ENGRG 3400
Title: Engineering Student Project Teams
Description: Intended for student members of Engineering Student Project Teams. Project Team students work in an applied setting that fosters knowledge transfer from the classroom to practice and development of professional skills necessary to work in multidisciplinary teams. Students will regularly attend team meetings as well as work on their own. An individual final deliverable on the project is required of each student.

Code: ENGRG 3605
Title: Ethics of Computing and Artificial Intelligence Technologies
Description: No description available.

Code: ENGRG 3900
Title: Foundations of Engineering Leadership
Description: This is the first of two required classes in the Engineering Leadership Certification Program. The focus is on the "self" and "team" competencies covered in the certification program. Students gain knowledge about their own strengths, values, purpose, goals, and derailers. Further topics include project management basics, presentation skills, communication and team dynamics. Working from this foundation, students propose and form teams to enact a Leadership Project that has meaning and impact. Note that this class includes two required weekend retreats in addition to the regularly scheduled class: one during the first week of classes in January and the other in April.

Code: ENGRG 4400
Title: Engineering Student Project Team Leadership
Description: This skills-based, experiential learning course will use students' project team experiences as a vehicle to learn about, practice, and refine critical leadership skills. Students will have access to one on one and small group coaching throughout their enrollment in the course.

Code: ENGRG 4800
Title: Eng Leader Skill Clinic: Listening Skills
Description: LSC: Listening Skills for Leaders teaches the foundational skill of transformational leadership. You'll learn a simple method for getting better information, creating empathy, and building better relationships through intentional listening. During the action interval, you'll apply these skills in real-world situations and reflect on your experience. The second and final workshop is dedicated to sharing your 'lessons learned' and forming a plan to continue to develop leader listening skills.

Code: ENGRG 4830
Title: Eng Leader Skill Clinic: Giving Feedback
Description: LSC: Giving Feedback will give you a framework, method, and language for giving others feedback. You'll learn how to take the sting out of critical feedback and be more comfortable offering feedback for the sake of team success. During the action interval, you'll apply these skills in real-world situations and reflect on your experience. The second and final workshop is dedicated to sharing your 'lessons learned' and forming a plan to continue to practice the skill learned.

Code: ENGRG 4960
Title: Entrepreneurial Practicum in Engineering
Description: This course provides a means by which engineering students can develop and refine their innovative technical ideas.  The course is tailored to individual student or student group needs, linking them with mentors and resources, including prototyping facilities, to help enable them to move their innovative ideas forward.

Code: ENGRG 4990
Title: Teaching in Engineering Leadership
Description: Teaching assistant responsibilities include class preparation, grading, and assisting students with class logistics. Regular class duties includes monitoring student class participation and facilitating exercises and discussions. Teaching assistants will help facilitate two outside-of-class retreats in the spring semester.

Code: ENGRG 4998
Title: Engineering Practical Training
Description: This independent study course offers engineering students an opportunity to reflect on professional and personal growth, challenges, and opportunities resulting from a recent internship in the USA (Curricular Practical Training, CPT). Typically, these internships take place in the summer and students, in the semester they return to campus, write a short paper describing their work experience and how it connects to the educational objectives of their  major. The value of the course is in the reflection on expectations, successes, challenges and skills and knowledge gained during the internship in the United States.

Code: ENGRG 5350
Title: Career Search and Exploration for Engineers
Description: This course delves into the essential elements of career planning and job search strategies. Through interactive discussions and practical exercises, students will identify their strengths, skills, and values, honing their ability to articulate these effectively in professional contexts. They will gain comprehensive insights into the complete job search process, including learning how to craft compelling application materials, cultivate their professional network, communicate with confidence during interviews, and negotiate offers effectively.

