Code: GREEK 1101
Title: Elementary Ancient Greek I
Description: Introduction to Attic Greek. Designed to enable the student to read the ancient authors as soon as possible.

Code: GREEK 1105
Title: Homeric Greek II
Description: This course continues the introduction to the vocabulary and grammar of Homeric Greek began in GREEK 1104, or similar courses. By the end of this course, students will be reading substantial, unaltered passages from Homer's Iliad.

Code: GREEK 2101
Title: Intermediate Ancient Greek I
Description: Combines reading of classical Greek prose texts with systematic review of forms presented in GREEK 1102, study of advanced grammar, vocabulary-building and sight-reading exercises.

Code: GREEK 3120
Title: Seminar in Greek
Description: Undergraduate seminar in Greek. Fall 2024 topic: Family intrigue in Herodotus and Lysias. Spring 2025 topic: Euripides' Herakles, Plato's Euthyphro.

Code: GREEK 3185
Title: Independent Study in Greek, Undergraduate Level
Description: May be taken upon completion of one semester of work at the 3000-level. To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with their advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.

Code: GREEK 4411
Title: Greek Comparative Grammar
Description: The prehistory and evolution of the sounds and forms of ancient Greek as reconstructed by comparison with the other Indo-European languages.

Code: GREEK 5111
Title: Elementary Ancient Greek I
Description: Introduction to Ancient Greek. Designed to enable the student to read the ancient authors as soon as possible.

Code: GREEK 5115
Title: Homeric Greek II
Description: This course continues the introduction to the vocabulary and grammar of Homeric Greek.  By the end of this course, students will be reading substantial, unaltered passages from Homer's Iliad.

Code: GREEK 5121
Title: Intermediate Ancient Greek I
Description: Combines reading of classical Greek prose texts with systematic review of forms presented in GREEK 5112, study of advanced grammar, vocabulary-building and sight-reading exercises.

Code: GREEK 5130
Title: Seminar in Greek
Description: Fall 2024 topic: Family intrigue in Herodotus and Lysias. Spring 2025 topic: Euripides' Herakles, Plato's Euthyphro.

Code: GREEK 6101
Title: Advanced Readings in Greek Literature
Description: Topic: Rhetoric: Gorgias, Lysias, Cicero (Pro Caelio)

Code: GREEK 7161
Title: Greek Philosophical Texts
Description: Reading and translation of Greek Philosophical texts.

Code: GREEK 7171
Title: Graduate Seminar in Greek
Description: Topic: Plutarch on women.

Code: GREEK 7411
Title: Greek Comparative Grammar
Description: The prehistory and evolution of the sounds and forms of ancient Greek as reconstructed by comparison with the other Indo-European languages.

