Code: ILRHR 2600
Title: Human Resource Management
Description: This class will introduce students to new developments in the world of human resources (HR). We will cover a number of topics, include how organizations now recruit and select job candidates, how organizations can make training and development more fun and more effective, and how new technologies and an emphasis on people analytics are changing how HR gets done in practice. In addition to discussion-oriented lectures, you will hear from a wide range of HR leaders and recent Cornell alumni who themselves are shaping the future of HR though an in-class "HR in Action" conversation series.

Code: ILRHR 3650
Title: Organizational Consulting: Process and Results
Description: Provides students with the insights and tools they need to work successfully as human resource management consultants, both as HR managers operating within a firm to improve organizational effectiveness and as external consultants providing project support to an internal HR organization. The consulting process is examined primarily from a systems perspective. This includes the knowledge and skills required to build trust and influence, to contract with clients, and to maintain good working relationships with clients. It also includes developing a clear comprehension of the consulting process from diagnosis, through action planning, to implementation and completion. While attention is given to theory and practice, the focus is on gaining hands-on experience dealing with real-world issues. As a final project, students will work in teams on a live case providing consulting services to an organization with an existing HR issue (i.e., implementing a new HR program, effectuating a new organizational culture, and enhancing project team operations).

Code: ILRHR 3690
Title: Managing Total Rewards
Description: Over the past decade, the world of work has seen a growing trend of increasing and diversifying the set of inducements that an organization offers to its employees, including both financial (e.g., pay) and non-financial (e.g., job experience, growth opportunities) inducements. Yet, managers and practitioners are uncertain about how to combine such varying inducements together and manage as a set of "total rewards." This course is designed to help understand the ways to manage total rewards within an organization. The course introduces a total rewards model—which is comprised of strategy, work experience, incentives/rewards, and administration—and explore how the interplay of each component produces different outcomes. The outcomes of the total rewards model include (financial) efficiency, human/social capital, and ethical/social legitimacy. Relevant theories, evidence, and cases will be introduced.

Code: ILRHR 4410
Title: Disability Considerations in HR Policy and Practice
Description: Individuals with disabilities continue to face obstacles to gaining and maintaining employment within the U.S. workforce, even though over 30 years have passed since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). This course provides a broad overview of the role of HR professionals in addressing this issue, by maximizing workplace disability inclusion and minimizing disability discrimination across the employment process. We will discuss the importance of this problem for people with disabilities, employers, and for society-at-large, and the business case for aligning disability inclusion with a company's strategic human capital, diversity and inclusion, and customer service imperatives. The implications for effective HR policies and practices in recruitment and hiring, career development and retention, diversity and inclusion, accessibility and accommodation, compensation and benefits and metrics and analytics will be covered across the lectures. Presentations by leading HR professionals are embedded throughout the course.

Code: ILRHR 4620
Title: Staffing Organizations
Description: The central goal of staffing is to ensure that your organization has the right people in the right jobs at the right time. It is hard to accomplish. In fact, nearly half of all hiring decisions are deemed a 'failure' from either the hiring manager or the worker. This course will introduce students to the challenges organizations and hiring managers face at each stage of the hiring process –– from defining job requirements though identifying, evaluating, selecting, and onboarding candidates – as well as how to overcome those challenges. We will also discuss succession planning, employee offboarding (turnover), the use of alternative work arrangements, and other activities that support an organizations' efforts to acquire and retain talent. We will explore these topics through a combination of interactive lectures, cases, applied assignments, and a series of "How do we actually do this?" conversations with talent acquisition leaders tackling these issues in real time.

Code: ILRHR 4641
Title: Business Strategy, Organizational Design, and Human Resource Strategy
Description: What is a human capital-based competitive advantage? How does an organization's HR strategy connect to the day-to-day management of its employees? How, when, and to what extent do employees' contributions bring an organization closer to achieving its strategic goals? This course integrates theoretical and practical insights to help students understand how an organization can develop an HR strategy that supports the requirements of its business strategy and effectively addresses challenges encountered in the changing external environment.

Code: ILRHR 4657
Title: Workplace Disability Inclusion: Innovations and Initiatives (Autism at Work)
Description: This course provides an overview of the emerging initiatives in technology and technology-intensive industries to actively recruit and hire individuals on the Autism Spectrum and the implications for HR policies and practices. The course traces the opportunities and challenges encountered across the employment process in designing and implementing these initiatives, and the importance of creating a workplace culture that embraces a diverse workforce, including individuals with disabilities, and those who are neurodivergent. The topics covered will include: models of effective recruitment, screening, selection, orientation, and on-the-job training; preparatory supervisor and workforce training; building a workplace culture inclusive of individuals who are neurodivergent; considerations in career advancement, retention, and performance management; building internal and external support systems to support success; and metrics and analytics in determining elements of program effectiveness at individual and organizational levels. The course requirements will include: related readings, case scenarios, weekly quizzes, a final paper, and presentations by practitioners representing companies who have such initiatives.

Code: ILRHR 4664
Title: Human Resource Analytics
Description: This course addresses applications of data, metrics, and analytics to human resources. It focuses on strategic aspects—e.g., alignment with organizational goals—as well as operational elements involving the collection, analysis, and reporting of people data. The course builds individual capabilities in quantitative reasoning, prepares students to make evidence-based recommendations for improving HR systems and practices, and develops skills in visualizing and presenting HR data.

Code: ILRHR 5600
Title: Human Resource Management
Description: Survey course designed to introduce concepts and topics in human resource management. Consideration is given to theories and applications involved in effectively managing people in organizations. Topics include recruitment, staffing, training, performance management, retention, compensation, international human resource management, and the legal environment. Emphasis is placed on exploring these issues from both strategic and tactical levels to increase organizational effectiveness.

Code: ILRHR 5645
Title: Design Thinking for HR
Description: While quantitative analytics can provide strong insights to aid in decision making in the HR function, there are many questions that can only be identified and examined through the use of more qualitative techniques. This course draws on concepts, models, and tools from design thinking as a means to help students think about qualitative approaches for understanding and solving important HR and people related challenges in organizations. Specifically, the course will cover how to ask testable questions, collect and analyze qualitative data, create and test protypes, and assess best fitting solutions for addressing key employee experience challenges. Students will have the opportunity to apply the tools throughout the semester in the context of an action learning project.

Code: ILRHR 5665
Title: Organizational Consulting
Description: This course is intended to provide students with the insights and tools they need to work successfully as human resource management consults both as HR managers operating within the firm to improve organizational effectiveness and as external consultants providing project support to an internal HR organization. The consulting process is examined primarily from a systems perspective, with the goal of helping students develop the knowledge and skills required to build trust and influence, to contract with clients, and to maintain good working relationships with clients. It also includes developing a clear comprehension of the consulting process from diagnosis, through action planning, to implementation and completion.  While attention is given to theory and practice, the focus is on gaining hands-on experience dealing with real-world issues.

Code: ILRHR 5680
Title: Staffing Organizations
Description: The central goal of staffing is to ensure that your organization has the right people in the right jobs at the right time. It is hard to accomplish. In fact, nearly half of all hiring decisions are deemed a 'failure' from either the hiring manager or the worker. This course will introduce students to the challenges organizations and hiring managers face at each stage of the hiring process –– from defining job requirements though identifying, evaluating, selecting, and onboarding candidates – as well as how to overcome those challenges. We will also discuss succession planning, employee offboarding (turnover), the use of alternative work arrangements, and other activities that support an organizations' efforts to acquire and retain talent. We will explore these topics through a combination of interactive lectures, cases, applied assignments, and a series of "How do we actually do this?" conversations with talent acquisition leaders tackling these issues in real time.

Code: ILRHR 5690
Title: Managing Total Rewards
Description: Over the past decade, the world of work has seen a growing trend of increasing and diversifying the set of inducements that an organization offers to its employees, including both financial (e.g., pay) and non-financial (e.g., job experience, growth opportunities) inducements. Yet, managers and practitioners are uncertain about how to combine such varying inducements together and manage as a set of "total rewards." This course is designed to help understand the ways to manage total rewards within an organization. The course introduces a total rewards model—which is comprised of strategy, work experience, incentives/rewards, and administration—and explore how the interplay of each component produces different outcomes. The outcomes of the total rewards model include (financial) efficiency, human/social capital, and ethical/social legitimacy. Relevant theories, evidence, and cases will be introduced.

Code: ILRHR 6410
Title: Disability Considerations in HR Policy and Practice
Description: Individuals with disabilities continue to face obstacles to gaining and maintaining employment within the U.S. workforce, even though over 30 years have passed since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). This course provides a broad overview of the role of HR professionals in addressing this issue, by maximizing workplace disability inclusion and minimizing disability discrimination across the employment process. We will discuss the importance of this problem for people with disabilities, employers, and for society-at-large, and the business case for aligning disability inclusion with a company's strategic human capital, diversity and inclusion, and customer service imperatives. The implications for effective HR policies and practices in recruitment and hiring, career development and retention, diversity and inclusion, accessibility and accommodation, compensation and benefits and metrics and analytics will be covered across the lectures. Presentations by leading HR professionals are embedded throughout the course.

Code: ILRHR 6451
Title: Leadership Assessment for Managers
Description: This is a leadership course for those of us who want to learn more about ourselves and about others: how we, with our unique styles, influence and lead others, as peers, as direct reports, as supervisors and managers, and as leaders. Through discussions and skills practice, we learn what we do well and what we might improve so that we become even more effective: not only effective at getting results but also effective at building, maintaining, and even improving relationships. Grow your leadership skills in two ways: through increased self-awareness and interactions with other students. 1. Increase self-awareness: Our course provides you with feedback from your peers, direct reports, and/or supervisors and uses tools like behavior assessments to explore your preferences. The course asks you, through assignments and self-reflection, to consider who you are, what you value, and how you got to where you are in life and work. 2. Learn from (and improve) how we interact with others.  We each bring with us a unique set of experiences to our work: experiences that have shaped what we value; how we think; and how we approach relationships, problems, and tasks. Our course helps us to learn leadership by understanding other individuals. We use small-group discussions and team assignments to help you learn from others and adapt to others' styles and preferences.

Code: ILRHR 6640
Title: HR Research for Executive Decision-Making
Description: Develops key HR competencies and skills for researching and presenting information necessary for executive decision making. The first several weeks cover the application of the design thinking model to the research process through instruction and hands-on experience. Following that, students act as consultants in a combined classroom and workplace setting as they work on special projects and topics posed by HR executives of primarily Fortune 500 companies. These team-based assignments give students exposure to different companies, their cultures, and executives while providing real work experience. Interviewing skills, report writing, and presentation methods are also covered.

Code: ILRHR 6657
Title: Workplace Disability Inclusion: Innovations and Initiatives (Autism at Work)
Description: This course provides an overview of the emerging initiatives in technology and technology-intensive industries to actively recruit and hire individuals on the Autism Spectrum and the implications for HR policies and practices. The course traces the opportunities and challenges encountered across the employment process in designing and implementing these initiatives, and the importance of creating a workplace culture that embraces a diverse workforce, including individuals with disabilities, and those who are neurodivergent. The topics covered will include: models of effective recruitment, screening, selection, orientation, and on-the-job training; preparatory supervisor and workforce training; building a workplace culture inclusive of individuals who are neurodivergent; considerations in career advancement, retention, and performance management; building internal and external support systems to support success; and metrics and analytics in determining elements of program effectiveness at individual and organizational levels. The course requirements will include: related readings, case scenarios, weekly quizzes, a final paper, and presentations by practitioners representing companies who have such initiatives.

Code: ILRHR 6910
Title: Business Strategy and Finance for Human Resources
Description: This course will address how firms make strategic decisions.  The first half of the course will focus on the foundational models and tools for strategic decision making such as industry analysis, internal analysis, competitive advantage, and business strategies.  The goal of the second half of this course is to provide students with the fundaments of finance and accounting from the perspective of human resource management.

Code: ILRHR 9620
Title: Doctoral Research Seminar in HR Management-Macro
Description: Aimed at reading, understanding, and conducting research in HRM. Whereas ILRHR 9610 aims at operational areas of HRM, this seminar focuses on topics of relevance to strategic HRM.

