Code: LATIN 1201
Title: Elementary Latin I
Description: Introductory course designed to prepare students to start reading Latin prose at the end of a year. The class moves swiftly and includes extensive memorization of vocabulary and paradigms; study of Latin syntax; and written homework, quizzes, tests, and oral drills.

Code: LATIN 1205
Title: Intermediate Latin I
Description: Introduces students to reading original Latin text. Covers complex syntax and reviews the grammar presented in LATIN 1202, LATIN 1204.

Code: LATIN 2203
Title: Catullus
Description: The hundred or so carmina we have of Catullus (c. 87 – c. 57 BC) continue to influence poets and critics today. Their timelessness makes us forget that they were composed in time, a greater understanding of which helps us to understand what makes them timeless. By engaging Catullus' poems actively in the original Latin, we will appreciate their historical, cultural, and poetical context and the impact it has had on their enduring appeal.

Code: LATIN 3220
Title: Rapid Reading in Latin
Description: Topic: Tacitus' Annales.

Code: LATIN 3286
Title: Independent Study in Latin, Undergraduate Level
Description: May be taken upon completion of one semester of work at the 3000-level. To be taken only in exceptional circumstances. Must be arranged by the student with their advisor and the faculty member who has agreed to direct the study. To be approved by the DUS.

Code: LATIN 5211
Title: Elementary Latin I
Description: Introductory course designed to prepare students to start reading Latin prose at the end of a year. The class moves swiftly and includes extensive memorization of vocabulary and paradigms; study of Latin syntax; and written homework, quizzes, tests, and oral drills.

Code: LATIN 5215
Title: Intermediate Latin I
Description: Introduces students to reading original Latin text. Covers complex syntax and reviews the grammar presented in LATIN 5212, LATIN 5214.

Code: LATIN 5223
Title: Catullus
Description: The hundred or so carmina we have of Catullus (c. 87 – c. 57 BC) continue to influence poets and critics today. Their timelessness makes us forget that they were composed in time, a greater understanding of which helps us to understand what makes them timeless. By engaging Catullus' poems actively in the original Latin, we will appreciate their historical, cultural, and poetical context and the impact it has had on their enduring appeal.

Code: LATIN 5230
Title: Rapid Reading in Latin
Description: Topic: Tacitus' Annales.

Code: LATIN 6201
Title: Advanced Readings in Latin Literature
Description: Topic: Semantics of prose.

Code: LATIN 6216
Title: Advanced Latin Prose Composition
Description: This advanced Latin prose composition course is for graduate students.

Code: LATIN 7920
Title: Independent Study in Latin
Description: Independent study for graduate students only.

