Code: MUSIC 1100
Title: Elements of Musical Notation
Description: This four-week course fulfills the requirement of basic pitch, rhythm, and score-reading skills needed for some introductory courses and 2000-level courses with prerequisites.

Code: MUSIC 1101
Title: Elements of Music
Description: Have you ever wondered: is there music in outer space? what is music's "deep history"? how do we know music when we hear it? why does it make us want to dance? does it also make us "civilized"? and how do cultural, technological, and economic forces shape why we listen, when we listen, and what we listen to? Elements of Music offers the opportunity to think about all these questions (and more) through a wide variety of hands-on musical activities: experimenting with instruments, recording and manipulating sounds from the world around us, examining medieval musical books, dancing the Twist, sweatin' to the Oldies, playing samba, improvising, singing, and above all, listening to music from around the world.

Code: MUSIC 1205
Title: Introduction to Western Art Music
Description: This course offers an introduction to the history and culture of Western art music, commonly known as "classical" music. While sketching an overview of important works, events, places, figures, and movements from the medieval period up to the present day, the course will focus on providing students with the knowledge, vocabulary, and listening skills required to locate themselves in relation to this vast and diverse body of music. No previous musical experience is required.

Code: MUSIC 1421
Title: Introduction to Computer Music
Description: A composition-based introduction to computer hardware and software for digital sound and media. Fundamentals of audio, synthesis, sequencing, and other techniques for electronic music production. Each student creates several short compositions.

Code: MUSIC 1701
Title: FWS: Sound, Sense and Ideas
Description: This First-Year Writing seminar provides the opportunity to write extensively about music's place in our world. Topics vary by section.

Code: MUSIC 2006
Title: Punk Culture: The Art and Politics of Refusal
Description: Punk Culture–comprised of music, fashion, literature, and visual arts–represents a complex critical stance of resistance and refusal that coalesced at a particular historical moment in the mid-1970s, and continues to be invoked, revived, and revised. In this course we will explore punk's origins in New York and London, U.S. punk's regional differences (the New York scene's connection to the art and literary worlds, Southern California's skate and surf culture, etc.), its key movements (hardcore, straight edge, riot grrrl, crust, queercore), its race, class and gender relations, and its ongoing influence on global youth culture. We will read, listen, and examine a variety of visual media to analyze how punk draws from and alters previous aesthetic and political movements. No previous experience studying music is necessary.

Code: MUSIC 2101
Title: Tonal Structure and Design in Classical, Jazz, and Popular Music I
Description: Study of the foundations of tonal music as manifested primarily in the Western literate tradition, also incorporating examples from various vernacular idioms. The course combines modern pedagogical methods with the study of historical sources and focuses on active learning at the keyboard. Topics to be covered include rudiments such as scales and triads; melodic and harmonic principles; voice-leading strategies and schemata; species counterpoint; improvisation, including techniques of embellishment; rhythm, meter, and gesture. During sections, the concepts and skills introduced in lecture will be practiced at the keyboard as well as vocally. Other section activities include elements of musicianship (aural skills, intervallic production and identification, rhythmic accuracy and fluency, etc.); transcription; sight singing; and score reading.

Code: MUSIC 2111
Title: Songwriting
Description: Songwriting introduces students to the practice of songwriting through workshop-formatted classes. We will explore the ingredients of song (lyrics, melody, delivery, harmony, rhythm, form, texture, timbre, and arrangement) through analysis, composition, recording technologies, performance, and concert reports. Proficiency on one or more musical instruments is required. Songwriting can be taken as a stand-alone course or as part of the Songwriting sequence with Collaborative Songwriting.

Code: MUSIC 2244
Title: The Music, Art, and Technology of the Organ
Description: The organ is an interdisciplinary wonder where mechanics, architecture, acoustics, religion, philosophy, literature, as well as the musical arts and sciences meet. This course uses the organ to explore music's relation to technology, history and culture, and in turn traces the technical and mechanical mysteries, and expressive possibilities, of the 'King of Instruments' across its long history. Students will gain 1) an understanding of some key aspects of musical history and repertoire; 2) a sense for the historical relation between music and technology; 3) a new knowledge of (and enthusiasm for!) the organ; and 4) an insight into the ways in which musical instruments and the musical practice associated with them are cross-cultural and interdisciplinary. With a key focus on the music of J. S. Bach, as well as on the reception of Bach's music in the 19th and 20th centuries, topics include the mechanics of organ construction, the North German organ art and the toccata, virtuosity and the use of the feet, the symphonic organ in the 19th century, 20th-century experimentation with organ sound, the organ and film. The course combines lectures with sessions at the organs as well as regular organ recitals. No prior musical experience necessary, although those interested (and with some keyboard skills) will have the opportunity for an introduction to learning to play – with both hands and feet.

Code: MUSIC 2311
Title: The Art and Craft of Music Journalism
Description: This workshop in music journalism will sharpen your prose, your mind, and your tongue. We'll read the work of great journalists of the past and present who've written ardently and unforgettably about music - Joseph Addison, Hector Berlioz, Robert Schumann, George Bernard Shaw, Paul Griffiths, Greil Marcus, Stanley Crouch, and Alex Ross, among others. Thus inspired, we'll dive into the vibrant musical scene of Cornell and beyond, each participant writing weekly pieces for the class blog, whose title and format will be determined by class members. In the course of the semester each student will accumulate a substantial portfolio of journalism, and stroke a love of writing about music.

Code: MUSIC 2321
Title: Groove: Black Music Theory
Description: In this course students will analyze the development of black musical traditions from a diasporic perspective and extend their musical awareness beyond familiar timelines and geographies. The intention of this course is for students to develop a deeper understanding of black music composition, structure, and form by introducing higher-level musical language and grammar. This will include musical notation, rhythmic and harmonic analysis, part-writing, listening, and other skills that can facilitate a deeper engagement with black musical cultures. By the end of the course, students will develop their own theoretical interpretations of what unites and distinguishes black musical practices across time and space.

Code: MUSIC 2341
Title: Gamelan in Indonesian History and Cultures
Description: This course combines hands-on instruction in gamelan, Indonesia's most prominent form of traditional music, and the academic study of the broader range of music found in contemporary Indonesia, including Western-oriented and hybrid popular forms. Students thus engage with music directly, and use it as a lens to examine the myriad social and cultural forces that shape it, and that are shaped by it.

Code: MUSIC 3111
Title: Jazz Improvisation and Theory I
Description: An introduction to fundamental jazz theory, technique, and applied skills.

Code: MUSIC 3122
Title: The Art of Conducting
Description: This course introduces fundamentals of conducting, including, but not limited to, gesture and movement; score reading, analysis, and interpretation; ear training; and historical practices. Students explore these topics in a variety of musical contexts, including orchestral, wind ensemble, choral, and mixed chamber ensembles. Classes are a mix of lectures, demonstrations, peer-to-peer learning activities, and frequent conducting experiences.

Code: MUSIC 3251
Title: Music and Madness
Description: This course offers historical, critical, and cross-cultural perspectives on music as a cause, a symptom, and a treatment of madness. Why are there so many reports of uncontrollable singing and/or dancing from medieval Europe? Why, around 1800, were women regarded as particularly susceptible to the sounds of the glass harmonica? Did certain kinds of music really cause members of the Issawa brotherhood to burn themselves with red-hot coals? In each class meeting we will investigate a number of approaches to a given mental state in the light of readings by musicologists, ethnomusicologists, historians, disability studies, scholars and medico-scientific researchers.

Code: MUSIC 3316
Title: What's in a Sound? Gender and Race in Sound Cultures
Description: What can we hear or see in a sound? Can the sound of a voice conjure traces of a body? How does sound, musical or otherwise, construct gender and race? In this course, we will consider how listening, speaking, and music operate as mechanisms of representation. We will pay particular attention to the work representations do and how they connect to systems of power and identity. From voice-overs and machine listening to reggaeton and Brazilian funk, we will examine the ways sound practices not only mirror gendered, racial, and sexual politics but also produce them. Through several case studies, we will find that the very possibilities of representations are embedded in historical contexts and the variability of media objects.

Code: MUSIC 3322
Title: Gospel and The Blues: A Black Women's History I, 1900-1973
Description: In her pathbreaking text Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval Saidiya Hartman writes that "young Black women were radical thinkers who tirelessly imagined other ways to live and never failed to consider how the world might be otherwise." This two-semester course endeavors to travel through those worlds using the cultural and musical forms of gospel and the blues as our compass. The first semester is guided by the work of scholars and writers like Angela Davis, Hazel Carby, Alice Walker, and Gayl Jones and artists like Ethel Waters, Bessie Smith, Victoria Spivey, and Sister Rosetta Tharpe. Together we will interrogate the spectrum of lived experiences making for a kaleidoscopic sonic history of joy, pleasure, sorrow, resistance, and everything in between.

Code: MUSIC 3431
Title: Sound Design
Description: Covering the basics of digital audio, bioacoustics, psychoacoustics and sound design, as they apply to theatre, film and music production. Students create soundscapes for text and moving image using ProTools software.

Code: MUSIC 3511
Title: Individual Instruction
Description: Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.

Code: MUSIC 3513
Title: Individual Instruction
Description: Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.

Code: MUSIC 3514
Title: Individual Instruction
Description: Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.

Code: MUSIC 3602
Title: Chorus
Description: A nationally renowned choral ensemble and vibrant student-driven organization specializing in repertoire for sopranos and altos. Collaborates frequently with the Glee Club to present mixed-voice repertoire and major works. Maintains a rigorous rehearsal and concert schedule and performs a wide variety of choral repertoire from throughout history and across the globe. Tours and records annually.

Code: MUSIC 3603
Title: Glee Club
Description: A nationally renowned choral ensemble and vibrant student-driven organization specializing in repertoire for tenors and basses. Collaborates frequently with the Chorus to present mixed-voice repertoire and major works. Maintains a rigorous rehearsal and concert schedule and performs a wide variety of choral repertoire from throughout history and across the globe. Tours and records annually.

Code: MUSIC 3604
Title: Chorale
Description: This course provides comprehensive training designed for singers to enhance their musical skills, sight-reading abilities, and vocal technique. The Chorale functions as a performing group with a strong emphasis on cultivating vital proficiencies to an advanced standard, equipping students with the requisite musical groundwork essential for a lifelong in choral music. Open to Cornell's undergraduate and graduate students, faculty and staff members who share a passion for singing, the Chorale invites participation. An expedited audition process is mandatory to assess suitable ensemble placement.

Code: MUSIC 3609
Title: Brazilian Ensemble - Deixa Sambar
Description: Deixa Sambar performs several styles of samba, Brazil's national music. Members need not have prior background in music-making, but a good sense of rhythm is desirable. Members include students as well as Ithaca community members, brasileiros as well as newcomers to Brazilian culture. Rehearsals develop playing skills, with a deep emphasis on cultural understanding of this vital, community-based music.

Code: MUSIC 3610
Title: Cornell Gamelan Ensemble
Description: Study and performance of Central Javanese gamelan, the best known traditional music of Indonesia. For more information see https://blogs.cornell.edu/gamelan/.

Code: MUSIC 3613
Title: Cornell Steel Band
Description: The Cornell Steel Band explores the wide variety of music for an orchestra of instruments fashioned from 55-gallon oil drums, and an "engine room" of non-pitched percussion. Interwoven into the focus on hands-on practice is reflection on the meanings of steel band, historically and in the present, in its native Trinidad and Tobago and here in the United States. Formal musical training is not necessary, though a sense of rhythm and a good ear are helpful.

Code: MUSIC 3616
Title: Cornell Hip-Hop Collective
Description: This course is open to experienced rappers, beatmakers, and vocalists interested forging collaborative relationships with other students. Taking as a foundation hip-hop's relationship to social justice, each semester we will work together to plan and record an EP on a theme or keyword chosen as a group. We will construct and analyze playlists of inspirational material, identifying specific hip-hop compositional strategies for creating beats and rhymes on a theme, and will use these tools to create and workshop our own collaborative tracks in weekly meetings. Please contact the instructor to audition.

Code: MUSIC 3621
Title: Cornell Symphony Orchestra
Description: The Cornell Symphony Orchestra provides its members the opportunity to develop their artistry and enhance their knowledge of orchestral repertoire in a dynamic and engaging environment.  Students perform a variety of repertoire that encompasses from the baroque to the 21st century through a range of symphonic activities: orchestral performances, composer and repertoire readings, educational and community outreach events, tours, and collaborations with faculty and guest artists.

Code: MUSIC 3631
Title: Cornell Wind Symphony
Description: The Cornell Wind Symphony unites student musicians in an ensemble dedicated to the study and performance of emerging and traditional wind repertoire.  The Cornell Wind Symphony unites student musicians in an ensemble dedicated to the study and performance of emerging and traditional wind repertoire. In Spring 2021, the Wind Symphony will likely make music in both in-person and remote settings. Full details and audition instructions will be posted on www.cuwinds.com as they become available.

Code: MUSIC 3634
Title: Cornell Percussion Group
Description: The Cornell Percussion Ensemble studies and performs conducted and un-conducted percussion chamber music from the rapidly expanding repertoire. Utilizing the stylistic and sonic variety that is unique to the medium, the ensemble performs a variety of composers and styles, including pieces composed within the past few years. Members of the ensemble will develop strategic listening and communication techniques through the study of chamber music while advancing their interpretative and technical skills. The ensemble performs mostly notated music, and players should have experience with reading advanced music notation. Prior experience with percussion instruments is required, and participants must meet with the instructor for a short audition before enrolling.

Code: MUSIC 3660
Title: Music Improvisation Ensemble
Description: The Music Improvisation Ensemble provides students with the opportunity to explore the elements of music from an improviser's perspective. This ensemble is open to any level of musician. An audition is required at the beginning of the semester simply as a means of introduction. Please contact instructor Annie Lewandowski for more information: apl72@cornell.edu.

Code: MUSIC 3901
Title: Supplemental Study in Music
Description: Intended primarily for music majors, this option allows students enrolled in an approved 1000- or 2000-level 3-credit music history course to pursue independent research and writing projects. Students will study various topics in music history at a more advanced level through supplementary reading, discussion, and writing, by arrangement with the professor.

Code: MUSIC 3902
Title: Choral Musicianship
Description: Co-requisite for new Cornell Chorus and Glee Club members, based on audition, and open to all students regardless of participation in an ensemble. This course provides a comprehensive perspective of choral music designed for singers to enhance their musical skills, foundational and advanced approaches for sight-reading abilities, aural skills, vocal technique, and appreciation of different styles of choral music. Recommended for singers at all levels wishing to improve musicianship skills.

Code: MUSIC 4241
Title: Historical Keyboarding
Description: Based on the holdings of the Cornell Center for Historical Keyboards, this course will be based on encounters with organs, clavichords, harpsichords, pianos, and synthesizers. In approaching them, we will treat the term "keyboard" as both a noun and a verb: like "skateboard" or "snowboard," it can represent both an object and ways of interacting with it. Students will situate each instrument within geographical and historical ecologies that acknowledge the origins of its materials, the labor that brought it into being, the play that has animated it, the repertoire that has sustained it, and the people it has connected. Over the course of the semester, each student will define and pursue a substantial research project based on a single instrument.

Code: MUSIC 4412
Title: Making Sound Futures
Description: Making Sound Futures is a transdisciplinary, transformative, hands-on studio course that nurtures curiosity and promotes experimentation, intuitive decision-making, and risk-taking. Embracing imperfection and uncertainty, we will construct sonic instruments to facilitate self-discovery, promote understanding of others, inspire imaginative exploration, and serve as a tools for problem-solving. Our activities will include close listening to sounds and then designing new instruments, individually and collaboratively, to recreate these sounds and others that have not yet been imagined. Raising awareness about how we contribute toward the future, we will devote ourselves to creating materials and techniques that the next generation of students can use and develop further. We will aim to generate designs for the future that are themselves open to reuse and reimagination.

Code: MUSIC 4501
Title: Individual Instruction
Description: Individual instruction in voice, organ, harpsichord, piano and fortepiano, violin, viola, cello, percussion, and some brass and woodwind instruments to those students advanced enough to do college-level work in these instruments. For more information about individual instruction, see the section titled Musical Instruction.

Code: MUSIC 4615
Title: Jazz Ensemble
Description: Study and performance of classic and contemporary big band literature. Rehearsals twice a week with two to four performances per semester.

Code: MUSIC 4616
Title: Jazz Combo
Description: Study and performance of classic and contemporary small-group jazz.

Code: MUSIC 4621
Title: Cornell Chamber Orchestra
Description: The Cornell Chamber Orchestra provides its members the opportunity to develop their artistry and enhance their knowledge of chamber orchestra and string repertoire in a dynamic and engaging environment.  Students perform a variety of repertoire that encompasses works from the baroque to the 21st century through a range of activities: chamber performances, composer and repertoire readings, educational and community outreach activities, tours, and collaborations with faculty and guest artists.

Code: MUSIC 4631
Title: Chamber Flute Ensemble
Description: Small ensembles meet weekly to explore diverse flute repertoire including a variety of instrumentation (piccolo, alto flute, bass flute).  There will be a performance opportunity at the end of the semester on a chamber concert or in a studio class setting.

Code: MUSIC 4641
Title: Advanced Instruction in Gamelan
Description: Concentrated instruction for students in advanced techniques of performance on Indonesian gamelan instruments.

Code: MUSIC 4651
Title: Chamber Music Ensemble
Description: Study and performance of chamber music works from duos to octets, for all instruments and voice. Students will be expected to attend a one hour coaching each week and rehearse on their own as well.  There will be a final performance at the end of the semester and possible additional performance opportunities.

Code: MUSIC 4901
Title: Independent Study in Music
Description: Independent study affords students the opportunity to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the independent course, must approve the proposed study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work. Students must prepare a proposal for independent study. To apply for independent study, please complete the online form.  Undergraduate student and faculty advisor to determine course of study and credit hours.

Code: MUSIC 4911
Title: Honors in Music
Description: First semester of the two semester honors program. In conjunction with faculty, selected candidates formulate a program that allows them to demonstrate their musical and scholarly abilities, culminating in an honors thesis, composition, or recital (or some combination of these), to be presented in their senior year.

Code: MUSIC 6201
Title: Research and Critical Methodologies
Description: This course explores two necessary components for advanced study and research in the discipline of music:  1) practicalities of research, including concepts, methodologies, and tools, which introduces students to social constructions of knowledge and how it is managed by libraries and archives, as well as many types of bibliographic tools, both printed and electronic; 2) critical approaches and theories of music, sound, performance, and cultural meaning, which introduces the students to key disciplinary and interdisciplinary intellectual movements and scholarly works.

Code: MUSIC 6239
Title: Global Currents: Immobility and Multi-Sited Ethnography
Description: Ever-increasing global interconnection drives some of the most pressing political and ethical questions of our time. This seminar centers on two intersecting areas of inquiry. The first deals with the nature of global movements: how people, ideas, arts, and capital move through world. Engaging postcolonial theory and scholarship on contemporary migration and transnationalism, we will interrogate the idea of borders and nations as well as those categories—like diaspora—that surpass or circumvent them. The second addresses how and why we might study these processes ethnographically. Here we will consider the potential and limitations of multi-sited and global ethnography, and question the possibility of an activist ethnography of global interconnection.

Code: MUSIC 6241
Title: Historical Keyboarding
Description: Based on the holdings of the Cornell Center for Historical Keyboards, this course will be based on encounters with organs, clavichords, harpsichords, pianos, and synthesizers. In approaching them, we will treat the term "keyboard" as both a noun and a verb: like "skateboard" or "snowboard," it can represent both an object and ways of interacting with it. Students will situate each instrument within geographical and historical ecologies that acknowledge the origins of its materials, the labor that brought it into being, the play that has animated it, the repertoire that has sustained it, and the people it has connected. Over the course of the semester, each student will define and pursue a substantial research project based on a single instrument.

Code: MUSIC 6312
Title: Synthesizing Pop: Electronics and the Musical Imagination
Description: From Switched-On Bach to Synthpop and EDM, since the late 1960s electronic synthesizers have expanded the sonic palette and identity formation of popular musicians, leading to new concepts of sound and performance as well as communal, technological, and human interfaces. This course will explore the cultural history of analog synthesizers and their progeny of digital devices (samplers, sequencers, drum machines) and desktop technologies that revolutionized popular music soundscapes and embodiment. Synthesis will be considered as both a musical technology and theoretical concept that together spark imagined cyborg identities and post-human futures, challenging and resynthesizing categories of gender, sexuality, and race. Student will also have the opportunity to engage with Cornell's Robert Moog Archive and develop research, creative, or curation projects. This course is open to graduate students and fourth-year undergraduates by permission. Undergraduates should contact the instructor before enrolling.

Code: MUSIC 6412
Title: Making Sound Futures
Description: Making Sound Futures is a transdisciplinary, transformative, hands-on studio course that nurtures curiosity and promotes experimentation, intuitive decision-making, and risk-taking. Embracing imperfection and uncertainty, we will construct sonic instruments to facilitate self-discovery, promote understanding of others, inspire imaginative exploration, and serve as a tools for problem-solving. Our activities will include close listening to sounds and then designing new instruments, individually and collaboratively, to recreate these sounds and others that have not yet been imagined. Raising awareness about how we contribute toward the future, we will devote ourselves to creating materials and techniques that the next generation of students can use and develop further. We will aim to generate designs for the future that are themselves open to reuse and reimagination.

Code: MUSIC 7111
Title: Composition
Description: A course for graduate or advanced undergraduate composers (by permission with a portfolio audition) seeking individual music composition instruction, the course combines one-on-one meetings with group seminars featuring workshops, master classes, and/or visiting guests. In addition to individual and group meetings, composers may have opportunities for the reading and/or performance of their work.

Code: MUSIC 7362
Title: Musical Value: Histories of Aesthetics
Description: Entering the lexicon of European philosophy in the 1700s, aesthetics attempted to name and analyze a particular kind of experience, judgment, object, or value. Its questions have been extended, critiqued, reformulated, and dismissed in the centuries since. In this seminar, we will read important texts in modern aesthetic theory (Hume, Kant), as well as some notable critiques that followed, from philosophy itself (Shusterman, Roelofs, Ngai) and from sociology (Bourdieu, Wolff). We will also consider two unavoidable questions for modern/colonial aesthetics: what to do with the so-called primitive art of non-European cultures (Boas) and how to understand the challenge of Black aesthetics in the twentieth century (Locke, Baraka, Wynter).

Code: MUSIC 7443
Title: A New Fable: Engaging the World Through Music
Description: How can we make musical works that are open, collaborative fields of activity for human and nonhuman beings, connected to our respective physical and social environments, processes, and territories? Through examining case studies in contemporary creative practice, this seminar will encourage students to generate ideas in a wide variety of ways and work together to realize them. The group will search for common nodes of interest and desired routes for engagement, combining oral and written modes of coordination. Participants from all backgrounds are welcome—the only requirement is a willingness to work together imaginatively and openly.

Code: MUSIC 7901
Title: Independent Study in Music
Description: Independent study affords students the opportunity to pursue special interests or research not treated in regularly scheduled courses. A faculty member, who becomes the student's instructor for the independent course, must approve the proposed study and agree to provide continuing supervision of the work.

