Code: NBA 3000
Title: The Business of Entrepreneurship
Description: The Business of Entrepreneurship is a comprehensive introduction to the key aspects of envisioning, starting and running a new business. The Business of Entrepreneurship focuses both on concepts and frameworks in entrepreneurship and on "doing" entrepreneurship. Students will form teams, ideate new businesses, complete customer development, construct business models and work towards defining minimum viable products. Topics covered will include definition of the market, sales and distribution, competition, hiring and management of people, cash flow and financial management, making compelling pitches and raising capital. The course culminates in a capstone project of writing a business plan and presenting to a group of entrepreneurs and investors. This course is appropriate both for students interested in launching an entrepreneurial endeavor or students who will benefit from learning frameworks applied to the entrepreneurial process.

Code: NBA 4120
Title: Equity Investment Research and Analysis
Description: This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of equity research and is similar to that provided to aspiring analysts, as apprentices, in buy-side investment firms. The course provides a comprehensive framework for analyzing equity securities and developing formal target prices and BUY/SELL/HOLD recommendations. Each student defines an industry to study and prepares an "industry review." Each student analyzes in detail one stock in the industry and prepares a stock report. A live portfolio is invested in late March with student picks. Topics include the research process, analysis strategies, valuation techniques and portfolio construction methods. Templates, examples and detailed feedback on draft reports are provided. Students should be prepared to conduct rigorous, creative research based upon their own work and insights. Class is taught in a hybrid format composed of in-class lectures, workshops, guest speakers, reading assignments, research assignments, lecture video assignments and student presentations.

Code: NBA 4720
Title: Family Enterprise Management and Governance
Description: This course is targeted at students that are or plan to be involved in family enterprises-irrespective of how-as an investor/owner, future leader, consultant, or employee. It will bring to light, many of the unique features (advantages and challenges) of a family enterprise. Students will be exposed to some critical themes that are unique to such enterprises-Role Definition, Effective Governance, Conflict Management, Succession and Fund Raising/Exit. They will acquire practical tools to effectively deal with them. One of the unique features of this class is that students will have an opportunity to discuss and analyze the specific opportunities and challenges they face in the family enterprise they represent (the level of sharing is of course entirely optional and up to each student to define). They will work on a "Student Case" project that allows them to dissect the issues and develop solutions, in a supportive team environment. This will be woven into the more traditional means of learning such as lectures, case studies, and guest speakers. Students will leave the course armed with clear insight into what to expect as they enter the family enterprise and how to navigate their unique environments. In doing so, they will amplify their ability to create enterprise, family and personal success.

Code: NBA 5035
Title: Philanthropic Leadership
Description: This course will prepare students to systematically plan for volunteer leadership through board service and financial giving across the course of their careers. Topics to be covered include: motivations for board service and philanthropic giving; the role of philanthropy in society; non-profit board structures, governance, and risk mitigation; impact and other forms of giving; board practicum. The course will be informed by theory and experiential in nature. Students will have the opportunity to research local non-profit organizations, determine whether this is the type of board they want to serve on, and, thanks to the generosity of a grant to our course from The Philanthropy Lab, award ~$50,000 to local organizations.

Code: NBA 5060
Title: Financial Statement Analysis
Description: The purpose of this course is to give students a broad understanding of financial statement analysis and valuation issues. The emphasis is on helping students understand the basic equity research process for use in investment and business decision applications. The course format is a combination of examples, case studies, and lectures. Potential topics include information sources, strategic ratio analysis, accounting quality, non-GAAP metrics, cash flow analysis, forecasting financial statements, and firm valuation using discounted cash flow and residual income techniques. The course deliverables include an equity research project and a final exam.

Code: NBA 5070
Title: Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers
Description: The course provides a hand-on experience for learning the key philosophies and tactics of entrepreneurial activity and the entrepreneurial mindset.  The unique focus of this class is that it is designed for Scientists & Engineers who would start a business that would have meaningful technology at the heart of the company.  This includes the development of a viable business concept, customer discovery, the evaluation and planning of the start-up businesses, go-to-market strategy, intellectual property, and financing. The course utilizes lectures,  directed readings, and guest speakers. The goal is a meaningful understanding of how to design a new business venture, achieved by building and communicating the framework for a viable business.

Code: NBA 5075
Title: Big Red Ventures
Description: Big Red Ventures is Cornell's student-run venture fund. Founded in 2000 as a student project, BRV fund managers source new investment opportunities, conduct opportunity assessments and due diligence, make investment recommendations, assess and vote on recommendations of other fund managers, and make investments in early-stage, high-growth startup companies. Fund managers also manage existing portfolio investments, conduct annual portfolio valuations, and prepare investor materials such as an annual report and annual meeting. Fund managers operate under the guidance and oversight of experienced practitioner faculty. BRV is a selective program, with an application and interview process open to MBAs, JDs, and PhD candidates; the course is only open to students who apply to become and are selected as fund managers (see brventurefund.com for application details and timing). Full participation at either the Ithaca or Cornell Tech campuses, both fall and spring semester, is required.

Code: NBA 5090
Title: Advanced Financial Statement Analysis
Description: This course builds on the material of NBA 5060 and focuses on more advanced financial statement topics and specialized industries. Topics may include investment research, accounting analysis, accounting quality, credit analysis, and advanced valuation issues.   Instruction focuses on a combination of lecture and case-based discussion.  Students are expected to have taken NBA 5060 or possess a good understanding of basic financial statement analysis.  The material is designed to broaden student's understanding of financial statement analysis and complement the tools developed in NBA 5060. The course deliverables include case write-ups, an equity research project, and a final exam.

Code: NBA 5100
Title: Social Entrepreneurship
Description: This class is designed to provide the participants with a viable pathway to understanding their role in making an enterprise more socially valuable in today's ever changing world. This course will explore the rising interest in practicing capitalism in order to benefit society as a whole.  In this class we will be tapping into the inherent feelings many students have that doing well and doing good in business is attainable.  The course will further explore potential business practices that are not only a force for doing good in society but lead to actually being socially and environmentally restorative.  Students will learn to identify their core passion and how to make that the centerpiece of their entrepreneurial path.  Students will identify the different purposes business have and evaluate their value to society utilizing a taxonomy of business structures from profit maximization to not for profit.  Students will evaluate what business structure is most favorable for their individual entrepreneurial path and will identify actual business practices that promote the thriving of the human spirit.

Code: NBA 5110
Title: Financial Modeling
Description: Financial modeling is the art and science of constructing spreadsheet models of firms' future financial statements. This class draws on and integrates students' knowledge of concepts learned in prior accounting classes by modeling the effect on the income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows of financial transactions such as leveraged buyouts, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate reorganizations.

Code: NBA 5111
Title: Foundations of Financial Modeling
Description: This course is NBA 5110 for non-MBA students. The course integrates financial analysis and financial modeling concepts to prepare students for careers in investment banking. Early classes focus on understanding and interpreting financial statements. Focus then shifts to building economically sound financial statement forecasts to create financial statement models. The second half of the course uses financial statement models to model equity valuations, alternative investment and financing decisions, leveraged buyouts and recapitalizations, and merger and acquisition transactions. The course presumes familiarity with basic financial accounting concepts, as well as basic corporate finance concepts and time-value of money.

Code: NBA 5120
Title: Applied Portfolio Management
Description: This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of fundamental research, quantitative equity security selection, and equity portfolio management. Students have the unique opportunity as part of this course to manage the Cayuga Fund, a student managed fund with $1 million in assets under management from the Cornell University endowment. Students will serve as fundamental analysts, quantitative analysts and portfolio specialists for the fund. Instruction on analysis, portfolio management and the investment business are included in this course. Students are expected to assume leadership for managing the Fund by the end of the semester. The experience is similar to that offered to rising analysts and portfolio managers in buy-side investment firms. Students will learn credit research techniques, maintain their stock coverage and continue managing the Fund in the spring.

Code: NBA 5121
Title: Seminar in Equity Research - Cayuga Fund
Description: An accounting/finance elective course that focuses on the management of the Cayuga Fund, a live small-cap equity portfolio. It is taken concurrently with NBA 5120. See NBA 5120 for more information.

Code: NBA 5130
Title: International Finance Cases
Description: International finance is different because of two issues, exchange rate volatility and barriers to the flow of capital. Furthermore, political risk is heightened when money crosses borders, and governance, disclosure, law, and regulation are more varied than in a single-country context. The purpose of this course is to practice applying the ideas and methods of finance to cross-border problems. The course is centered on seven cases including discussions of related research and other materials. An introductory Managerial Finance class is a pre-requisite.

Code: NBA 5150
Title: Leadership Theory and Practice
Description: This course will focus on the challenges of effective leadership in a complex world. The course has four significant parts: 1. Exploring historical and contemporary theories and models of leadership through the required text and selected articles; 2. Examining and applying the Johnson School's Leadership Model; 3. Analyzing the practical challenges of leadership through case studies, and executive speakers; 4. Developing self-awareness of the student's leadership strengths and weaknesses through the use of behavioral instruments and group exercises and creating a personal action plan for improvement. A critical element of this course will be the coaching and feedback students will receive on their own leadership styles and behaviors from their peers and instructor.

Code: NBA 5175
Title: Life Science Entrepreneurship in Practice
Description: The course provides a hands-on experience for learning the key philosophies and tactics of entrepreneurial activity surrounding the launch and early growth of life science ventures. We will focus on learning how life science technology concepts in the pharma/biotech, health, veterinary, and agri-tech sectors are converted into sustainable and scalable businesses. We will also consider the unique aspects of starting a life science venture related to R&D/product development, regulatory/clinical aspects, reimbursement/revenue models, and manufacturing/operations.

Code: NBA 5180
Title: Design and Innovation
Description: In today's business landscape, creative problem solving has become a critical tool for leaders to drive innovation and transformation across different industries. This hands-on course serves as an initial introduction to various design tools and aims to develop a creative problem-solving opportunity mindset to identify new avenues to create meaningful impact. The curriculum dives into foundational design concepts, design thinking, and human-centered design principles. This course requires agility, openness to new ways of thinking, and the ability to embrace ambiguity. It is structured around project-based teamwork to foster collaboration and aims to establish a culture of diversity through open and constructive critiques. With support from selected readings, case studies, and insights from guest speakers across various industries, the course ensures a comprehensive understanding of design and innovation thinking and methods.

Code: NBA 5185
Title: Green Tech Innovation in Practice
Description: Focused on developing the next generation of clean energy, climate tech, and sustainability-oriented startup leaders, this course empowers PhD and MBA candidates from across Cornell's colleges to dive into hands-on, innovation-driven startup creation. This workshop course leverages PhD participants' research expertise and thesis subjects to shape innovative business model hypotheses. Collaborative, cross-disciplinary teams, inclusive of researchers, cultivate their 'entrepreneurial judgment' by strategically testing these hypotheses to mitigate business model risks. Seasoned entrepreneurs, investors, and faculty provide ongoing feedback to refine insights and set team priorities. Armed with essential tools, training, and deeper entrepreneurial judgment, attendees are prepared to spearhead their own startups or lead in the flourishing green tech sector. Enrollment is limited to participants in the Green Technology Innovation Fellowship with instructor permission.

Code: NBA 5220
Title: Equity Investment Research and Analysis
Description: This course is an introduction to the theory and practice of equity research and is similar to that provided to aspiring analysts, as apprentices, in buy-side investment firms. The course provides a comprehensive framework for analyzing equity securities and developing formal target prices and BUY/SELL/HOLD recommendations. Each student defines an industry to study and prepares an "industry review." Each student analyzes in detail one stock in the industry and prepares a stock report. A live portfolio is invested in late March with student picks. Topics include the research process, analysis strategies, valuation techniques and portfolio construction methods. Templates, examples and detailed feedback on draft reports are provided. Students should be prepared to conduct rigorous, creative research based upon their own work and insights.

Code: NBA 5245
Title: Introduction to Macroeconomics
Description: The course introduces the basic tools of economic policies and the key issues of modern economies. The course provides the necessary knowledge to analyze the basic goals of macroeconomic policy i.e., low unemployment, stable inflation, financial stability, and stable and strong economic growth.  Topics covered include, among others, economic growth, expansions and recessions, monetary and fiscal policies, GDP, inflation, unemployment, the public debt, interest rates, the trade deficit, exchange rates, and global markets. Although focusing on the U.S.— the world's largest national economy—and paying special attention to its institutions and problems, the course will emphasize the global context in which it functions by periodically shifting attention to other economies around the world. Globalization-related issues such as international financial markets and global crises will be given special attention.

Code: NBA 5260
Title: Leaders in Emerging Markets
Description: Emerging markets represent now almost 40% of the world economy and eight out of the 20 biggest economies are from emerging markets with China as the second biggest economy in the world. As emerging countries are becoming more prominent in the world, MBA students need to have the knowledge and the tools to navigate its economic and business challenges. The course will also be looking at business strategies for emerging markets. Students will learn from lectures from the faculty and a number of executives from companies working in and from emerging markets. The Goals of this course are 1) To provide the opportunity to learn about Emerging Markets and leveraging the faculty lectures and the excellent speakers EMI brings 2) To increase connections between speakers and their organizations with EMI fellows and MBA students 3) To highlight the challenges and opportunities of doing business in emerging markets and 4) To engage students in active discussions about issues around emerging markets.

Code: NBA 5330
Title: Management Cases
Description: The course builds case-cracking skills, a CEO perspective and developing and defending a fact-based point of view.

Code: NBA 5380
Title: The Business Idea Factory
Description: Do you want to become an entrepreneur, but you don't yet have that brilliant idea? This class will help you come up with new ideas and evaluate which ones are the most worth pursuing to ensure you invest your time and energies on ideas that have the most promise. The first section of the course will be about places and processes that you can use to find inspiration to come up with a large number of potential business ideas. We will then walk through a systematic process to evaluate, validate, and quantify the best ideas for each team. This process will be assisted by experienced entrepreneurs as guest speakers who will share the inspirations for their businesses, the methods they used to select those ideas as worthy of pursuit, as well as insights into their careers.

Code: NBA 5410
Title: Project Management
Description: This course covers basic concepts in planning, scheduling and monitoring a project. The tools provided in the course aim to help plan, manage and deliver projects on time and on budget.

Code: NBA 5430
Title: Financial Markets and Institutions
Description: This course presents an overview of the structure and function of the financial markets. The course attempts to provide a general working knowledge of the financial system by examining not only how various intermediaries and markets work, but also their evolution over time.  The role of central banks, and their operations, is particularly emphasized, as is the nature of risk management both within the financial institution and more broadly for the financial system. Topics considered here include swaps, credit derivatives, value at risk models, and systemic risk. Just as intermediation has moved from institutions to markets, the course follows a similar evolution in the topics studied over the course of the semester. Market topics examined include securitization, the Blockchain, digital currencies and the impact of fin tech on intermediation.

Code: NBA 5531
Title: Federal Income Taxation
Description: This is an introductory course covering the present structure of tax law in the United States, measurement of taxable income, fundamentals of tax planning and compliance, and the tax issues encountered by various taxpayers (e.g., individuals, corporations and partnerships).

Code: NBA 5540
Title: International Finance
Description: Applies principles of finance to the international setting. International finance is different in two basic respects: (1) the existence of multiple currencies adds risk to investment and financing decisions; (2) when corporations and portfolio investors cross international borders, both problems and opportunities arise. This course focuses on these issues and highlights how finance theory can be extended to address them. Students apply the basic principles of international finance to a variety of problems. The course helps students understand the ideas and research results of international finance and adapt what they learn to the practical problems in the increasingly globalized business world. The first part of the course outlines exchange rate volatility, barriers to international capital flows, and the value of international diversification. The second part presents a variety of problems, examples, and applications from the three basic themes described in part one. Spreadsheet assignments and a group presentation requiring data analysis develop research skills and illustrate academic concepts. Exams consist of computational, short answer, and short essay questions.

Code: NBA 5550
Title: Fixed Income Securities and Interest Rate Options
Description: Designed to study the pricing, hedging, and risk management of fixed-income securities, interest rate and credit derivatives. Topics include the term structure of interest rates, interest rate swaps (caps, floors, collars), credit risk, corporate bond valuation, and credit derivatives. The method of instruction is lectures and discussion, with computer illustrations. A secondary theme of the course is the use of models in practice for risk management.

Code: NBA 5600
Title: Demystifying Big Data and FinTech
Description: The goal of the course is to give a systematic and rigorous introduction to the emerging areas of financial technology, cryptocurrencies and DeFi, digital economy, crowd-based financing and lending, and applications of big data, machine learning, and AI in business settings. This elective consists of seven intensive sessions of lectures, discussions, guest talks by industry leaders, and readings of media and research articles.

Code: NBA 5640
Title: The Business of Entrepreneurship
Description: The Business of Entrepreneurship is a comprehensive introduction to the key aspects of envisioning, starting and running a new business. The Business of Entrepreneurship focuses both on concepts and frameworks in entrepreneurship and on "doing" entrepreneurship. Students will form teams, ideate new businesses, complete customer development, construct business models and work towards defining minimum viable products. Topics covered will include definition of the market, sales and distribution, competition, hiring and management of people, cash flow and financial management, making compelling pitches and raising capital. The course culminates in a capstone project of writing a business plan and presenting to a group of entrepreneurs and investors. This course is appropriate both for students interested in launching an entrepreneurial endeavor or students who will benefit from learning frameworks applied to the entrepreneurial process.

Code: NBA 5670
Title: Management Writing
Description: This course is designed to develop your writing skills in the context of practical business applications. It begins with a strategic perspective on business writing and focuses on the elements that make your writing clear, concise, efficient, and effective.  You will improve the clarity, content, structure, and visual design of your management writing, as well as increase your confidence in your communication skills. The course is suitable for students for whom English is their native language, as well as students for whom English may be a second or third language.

Code: NBA 5680
Title: Management Presentations
Description: NBA 5680 focuses on advancing the management presentation skills of graduate students. The course covers effective strategies and best practices for business presentations both in terms of content/organization and delivery (verbal and non verbal). The course emphasizes active learning and continuous student practice with feedback from peers and the instructor. By the end of the class students raise their understanding and appreciation of effective presentation practices, increase their awareness of their own strengths and weaknesses and become noticeably improved communicators.

Code: NBA 5690
Title: Management Consulting Essentials
Description: This course will help students learn about consulting and the skills and capabilities to be a successful consultant. The course will begin with a module on successful case interviews. The consulting process will be discussed and why it leads to successful solutions for complex business problems. With the consulting process understood the course will focus on developing a problem definition diagnostic framework, hypotheses, analytical approaches, data collection and conclusions. The course will also include concepts critical to consulting including interviewing to collect information, facilitating meetings, managing clients and their expectations, selling recommendations and developing impactful presentations. The course will use a combination of lectures, case work, individual and teamwork to learn the concepts.

Code: NBA 5710
Title: Cornell Management Simulation
Description: You've learned finance, marketing, operations, accounting, economics, management, leadership, statistics, and strategy. You've done a deep dive into at least one of these subject areas. But how do they fit together?  How are they used to actually run a company? The Cornell Management Simulation elective course will give you the chance to form a team and run a company that will compete against your classmates in a simulated industry; this strategic management simulation was written by Johnson faculty and has been part of the MBA curriculum for over 20 years. At the beginning of the simulation, each team develops a strategy, and before the results of the last decision have been determined, presents an analysis of its performance and lessons learned in a final meeting. The first course meeting (mandatory to be in the class) introduces the simulation and its mechanics as well as a discussion of company strategy. Future weekly meetings review key business topics that teams encounter as they run their companies, and include time for teams to review their performance and work on their company decisions. Grades are based on the value created for the company's shareholders (relative to other firms in the same industry), the team's strategy, and the instructor's evaluation of team's performance at the board meeting.

Code: NBA 6030
Title: Strategies for Sustainability
Description: Corporations are under increasing pressure from shareholders, employees, communities, and activists to account for the environmental and social effects that their activities create. Increasingly, firms are taking strategic approach to addressing these issues, developing programs that fit their capabilities, resources, and cultures.  Through a combination of cases, readings, lectures, and videos, class sessions will ensure students develop an understanding of sustainability in the context of business as well as strategic business decision-making in the context of sustainability.  NBA 6030 is open to all graduate students.

Code: NBA 6050
Title: Strategy Formulation and Competitive Analysis
Description: The course will help students develop their strategic thinking, strategy formulation and strategic analysis skills. It will use a series of cases involving companies in different strategic situations such as in an emerging  industry, mature industry, transforming industry, network effect industry, etc. and engage students in  developing and / or evaluating appropriate strategies in these varied situations. It will help build a skill in formulating strategy, refining strategy and very importantly evaluating strategy.

Code: NBA 6060
Title: Evaluating Capital Investment Projects
Description: This course focuses on the financial-economic analysis of corporate investment (i.e., capital budgeting) decisions. One of the most important decisions a firm makes is how to best allocate its capital resources.  This course will help students understand the tools and frameworks needed to analyze and communicate the value impact of proposed capital expenditures and strategic decisions.  This course is especially useful to anyone preparing for a career role with input to business investment decisions, including marketing, operational, and corporate financial managers. Both conceptual understanding and practical implementations through case studies will be emphasized.

Code: NBA 6100
Title: Applied Operations Strategy
Description: Operations are integral to every enterprise, within and across their supply chain.  Whether it is a traditional product-manufacturing supply environment, retail setting, service operations, financial services or pure e-commerce, successfully defining and executing an operations strategy is critical to the success of the enterprise.  It is vital to understand the role and value of operations as an integral enabler of value for an enterprise business strategy. The Applied Operations Strategy course is designed to provide essential grounding on both why comprehensive operations strategies are designed to support the goals of the enterprise, and, importantly, how such strategies are executed successfully.  The curriculum will take a topical approach  to understanding the role an operations strategy plays, such as: How a legacy internal combustion engine car maker enters the electric car market; Supply chain resiliency – think how you configure global operations when facing a pandemic; Integrated sales & operations planning for consumer packaged goods or consumer electronics; Off-shoring, near-shoring, on-shoring supply chain strategies; Digital supply chain and Industry 4.0 strategy and execution; How a start-up ecommerce platform manages supply & demand when they own no physical assets. A combination of case- and instructor experience is used to cover most of the topics, with senior operations executive guest speakers planned. Other Johnson faculty may participate to complement a case discussion to address the theory behind the practice. Applied Operations Strategy is a half-semester elective class that may be taken as a stand-alone class or as a complement to other operations and supply chain management courses.

Code: NBA 6130
Title: Women and Leadership
Description: What are the facts about the current state of women as leaders? What special challenges face women as they transition from students to managers to leaders? What do the latest research findings offer to  organizations that want to benefit from more women leaders? In this course, we will take a multi-pronged approach to learning about women and leadership to better prepare students of both genders to lead in organizations. To do this, we will analyze case studies of women leaders pulled from a range of industries. We will review the current state of empirical evidence about the status of women as leaders, investigate the barriers that have made it more difficult for women to reach the top of the business world, and consider ways in which individuals and organizations can overcome them. Finally, there will be time to engage in deep reflection about what students expect from their careers, as well as a chance to consider the pathways they must take to become effective and inclusive leaders in increasingly diverse organizations.

Code: NBA 6145
Title: AI Strategy and Applications
Description: Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a science and set of computational techniques that are inspired by the way that humans use their nervous systems and bodies to sense, learn, reason and take action. In recent years, AI has emerged as one of the most important disruptions facing business and society over the next several decades. While AI is not new and has been around for more than 60 years, the confluence of certain trends over the last decades and accelerating technological change has introduced a new urgency into the study of the impact of AI on business, government and society.

Code: NBA 6150
Title: Business Chinese in Global Context I
Description: First part of a two-semester sequence for advanced mandarin learners. This course aims to equip students with the linguistic and intercultural skills necessary to thrive in a Chinese business environment. The main vehicle of exploration is Zhihong Chen's newly updated multimedia book "When China Meets the World: Bilingual Business-Finance Cases" (Oxford University Press, 2024) which provides a wide range of real case studies to showcase China's continuous integration with the larger outside world. Through the learning and discussion of real business cases in Chinese, students will not only develop linguistic tools vital to doing Business in China, but also obtain cultural understanding to the Chinese way of conducting business with the outside world. In addition to business case analysis, students will also gain hand-on experience in skills that can be applied in the fields of Finance, Consulting, Accounting and the like. The course will also allow students to interact with entrepreneurs and experts in the field, as well as utilize language skills gained in the course within a mock business interaction.

Code: NBA 6190
Title: Leaders in Sustainable Global Enterprise
Description: Leaders in Sustainable Global Enterprise, is meant to provide students the opportunity to hear in-depth presentations from private, public, or non-profit leaders who are on the cutting edge of the business-sustainability domain. Session structures can vary in format, and could include lectures, living case studies, panel discussions, and moderated Q&A, etc. The slate of speakers is structured to represent a variety of functional areas as well as industrial sectors. The course is meant to expose students to a diverse array of business-sustainability topics and issues facing today's leaders; as well as the actions those leaders are taking to ensure the competitiveness of their organizations in the marketplace.

Code: NBA 6230
Title: Actualizing Your Startup - Part I
Description: Actualizing Your Startup Parts 1 and 2 are performance learning courses, based around student projects in the form of students and teams starting their own companies. eLab's instructors serve as coaches, guides, mentors, teachers, and assistants to the teams, and will coordinate the involvement of a number of high-profile mentors from the startup and venture capital community. Students will enhance their business and entrepreneurship learning by putting theoretical concepts into practice in starting and growing their own companies in a team environment. We expect that students will take this opportunity to "make it real" - eLab is not about starting theoretical companies, or theoretically exploring potential business ideas. Rather, it is about starting real companies that have the potential to grow and provide employment and economic benefit to their founders, and to provide deep experiential learning in starting and growing a business. Participation in this course is limited to students that are on an admitted eLab team. eLab has an application process which is described at elabstartup.com.

Code: NBA 6260
Title: Consumer Behavior
Description: How do you grab people's attention, increase someone's motivation, or boost customer satisfaction? Drawing on psychology, marketing, and economics, this course provides future managers, analysts, consultants, and advisors with strategic insights for influencing customer behavior within and outside of traditional marketing problems. By the end of this seven-week course, students will be able to (1) analyze theoretical and empirical findings on consumer behavior and (2) apply these insights to provide novel recommendations for how companies can change customer behavior. Along the way, students will be challenged to think differently about how people arrive at the judgments and choices they do, and how these choices ultimately affect their well-being. Students will also be able to assess themselves as a target of influence from marketers and media, gaining insights into their own decisions and behavior. The premise of the course is that understanding consumer psychology has powerful business and personal implications.

Code: NBA 6290
Title: Special Topics in Marketing
Description: This course focuses on emerging and underappreciated topics such as entrepreneurial marketing, technology-enabled marketing structures, private brands, and branding of not-for-profits. Specific topics vary from year to year, in accord with its raison d'etre. Each topic is led by an industry guest speaker. Students are required to read related material before each class meeting and to analyze a current case provided by the speaker. Students, working in teams, present their case analysis in class and receive feedback from the speaker. Some students are also required to submit an individual term paper. The class is graded pass-fail only, with a pass requiring full attendance at a minimum of five of the six class meetings with speakers.

Code: NBA 6320
Title: Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World
Description: Core Leadership Skills for a VUCA World is designed to provide students with an opportunity to expand their knowledge and understanding of the key leadership skills required for success in today's volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous business world through discussion and interaction with an experienced practitioner and former leader of the United States Army. The course will be comprised of four modules: 1) Leadership Principles for a Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous World; 2) Developing and Communicating Vision and Strategy; 3) Setting Conditions for Success; and, 4) Character and Leadership. Coursework to include readings, discussion, and a final paper.

Code: NBA 6390
Title: Data Driven Marketing
Description: Deals with the use of data to make marketing decisions. Introduces concepts, methods, and applications of analytics to address marketing questions. Three broad areas are covered: Digital Advertising Analytics, Demand Analytics, and Customer Analytics. Unlike marketing courses that focus on conceptual material, this course provides skills to translate conceptual understanding into specific operational plans, ­a skill in increasing demand in organizations today. Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on return on investment in marketing spending. The course is particularly valuable to students planning careers in management consulting, marketing, and market research. It is designed for students who have some background in quantitative methods and have a willingness to deal with mathematical concepts. Knowledge of Excel and regression analysis is required.

Code: NBA 6420
Title: Supply Chain Analytics
Description: A supply chain is a network of organizations that are involved in the different processes and activities that produce value in the form of products and services. Supply chain management is an essential tool for firms to achieve profit maximization as well as social responsibility. Innovations arise from three main sources: application of information technology, reconfiguration of the supply chain network, and modification of incentives. In this course, we will introduce analytical methods and innovative designs of supply chain management, with applications in both developed and emerging economies. We will address the following issues: cross-docking and automation; global project management and coordination; dynamic pricing and revenue management; humanitarian logistics and sustainability; and counter-strategy for illicit supply chains.

Code: NBA 6460
Title: Financial Institutions
Description: This course explores the economic functions, institutional design, and regulation of financial institutions. Beginning with conventional deposit-taking banks, the course examines the risks embedded within the business of banking, along with how regulation seeks to manage these risks. It then expands this framework to examine several other forms of 'non-bank' financial intermediation including investment banks, insurance companies, wholesale funding markets, structured finance markets, money market and other investment funds, and financial market infrastructure. The course also examines some of the related consumer/investor protection problems and how financial regulation seeks to address them.

Code: NBA 6530
Title: Strategic Alliances
Description: In the fast-paced world of global business, companies very often find themselves constrained in their ability to access markets, technology or other key drivers of success. This highly interactive course explores how companies might use strategic alliances as a lever to help achieve strategic growth objectives. It will explore various types of strategic alliances, from arms-length contracts to joint ventures, delving into the rationale and pros and cons of each major type of alliance. It will further arm students with tools to manage a strategic alliance through its life cycle stages-from ideation to negotiation, governance and wind down. Students will emerge from this class with a unique, practical toolkit on how to utilize strategic alliances to deliver business success. This course will be taught from the perspective of a senior executive responsible for a global business.

Code: NBA 6540
Title: Power and Politics in Organizations
Description: This course is about the art and science of influence in organizations. While many people are ambivalent, even disdainful, of those who wield power and influence at work, organizations are fundamentally political entities, and power and influence are key mechanisms by which things get done. Without political capital your ideas will too often fail to be recognized or implemented and your career progression will be more challenging and potentially limited. All aspiring leaders therefore stand to benefit from developing greater political acumen. This course aims to enhance your political intelligence and interpersonal influence through building your knowledge base and equipping you with an expert toolkit to become a more astute manager and successful leader without sacrificing your authenticity. After taking this course, you will be able to: (1) diagnose the sources and distribution of power in organizations, (2) formulate strategies for building your own sources of power, (3) understand your own natural influence style, and sharpen your ability to interact and communicate with others in ways that make you more influential, (4) apply the principles of power and influence in groups and organizations, and (5) anticipate and guard against the pitfalls of power including ethical lapses and the loss of power.

Code: NBA 6620
Title: Brand Management
Description: Which brands do you feel connected to? Starbucks? NPR? Johnson? What draws you into these brands?  How do firms create compelling brand experiences? How could you build a brand that fosters relationships with consumers? This course takes a consumer-centric approach to explore such questions with the goal of identifying the ingredients for building and managing brand relationships, where brand is defined as "a reputation." To bridge theory and practice, the course interweaves lectures, case discussions, guest speakers, and in- and out-of-class exercises. The course culminates in a Brand Audit, which provides a systematic way to inventory current brand assets and develop strategy.  Please note that although this course does include individual assessments, it also has a strong emphasis on teamwork (e.g., two in-class team presentations).

Code: NBA 6630
Title: Managerial Decision Making
Description: This course attempts to make its participants better managerial decision makers. However, most students find that the course applies equally well to their personal decisions. There are two other objectives. The first is to convey an enduring understanding of decision concepts, skills, and tools that, taken as a whole, comprise a troubleshooter's guide to dealing with the uncertainty, complexity, and conflict of the professional world. The second is to provide a framework for a good decision process in which all of the decision concepts, skills, and tools fit coherently. The pedagogical approach uses lectures, in-class exercises, and applications.

Code: NBA 6682
Title: Crisis Communications for Business Leaders
Description: Business leaders today constantly face crises that threaten their company's reputation. Such defining moments require effective crisis communication to mitigate negative effects, build trust with the organization's internal and external audiences and navigate through the crisis gracefully and effectively towards resolution. In this course you will learn to anticipate and appreciate the complexities and challenges of brand reputation management during a crisis and develop strategies and techniques to communicate with various constituencies, especially the media/public, employees and major stakeholders. You will apply principles of effective crisis communication management through a simulation, and will develop message maps for emergency and other crisis scenarios. Course work includes readings, case analyses, and simulations.

Code: NBA 6720
Title: Family Enterprise Management and Governance
Description: This course is targeted at students that are or plan to be involved in family enterprises-irrespective of how-as an investor/owner, future leader, consultant, or employee. It will bring to light, many of the unique features (advantages and challenges) of a family enterprise. Students will be exposed to some critical themes that are unique to such enterprises-Role Definition, Effective Governance, Conflict Management, Succession and Fund Raising/Exit. They will acquire practical tools to effectively deal with them. One of the unique features of this class is that students will have an opportunity to discuss and analyze the specific opportunities and challenges they face in the family enterprise they represent (the level of sharing is of course entirely optional and up to each student to define). They will work on a "Student Case" project that allows them to dissect the issues and develop solutions, in a supportive team environment. This will be woven into the more traditional means of learning such as lectures, case studies, and guest speakers. Students will leave the course armed with clear insight into what to expect as they enter the family enterprise and how to navigate their unique environments. In doing so, they will amplify their ability to create enterprise, family and personal success.

Code: NBA 6730
Title: Derivatives Securities Part I
Description: The market for derivative securities has experienced dramatic growth in recent years.  Market participants use financial instruments such as futures, options, and other derivatives to transfer and manage risks, as well as express views on market outcomes.  While the study of derivatives is inherently quantitative, my goal is to help students develop strong intuition and build the skills necessary to understand, value, and use derivatives.  In order to provide a useful treatment of the topics suitable for a rapidly changing environment, I will stress fundamental concepts and emphasize important applications throughout the course.

Code: NBA 6740
Title: Derivatives Securities Part II
Description: This course builds on the foundations established in NBA 6730 (Derivative Securities I) and focuses on options markets. We will start with option types and strategies. After observing the limitations of model-free approach, we will spend an important portion of our time on how to utilize models to price and understand options. Specifically, we will study binomial option pricing, the Black-Scholes model, and the associated Delta-Hedging. We will conclude with Volatility and (if time permits) Credit Risk.

Code: NBA 6820
Title: Negotiation I: Negotiation Essentials
Description: Negotiation is the art and science of securing an agreement between people who have some conflicting interests.

