Code: UNILWYL 1120
Title: Wonder Women
Description: This course brings together students, faculty, and invited guests to discuss the art of leadership and the opportunities and challenges women in leadership roles have encountered in their careers and how they have managed them. The sessions will be held in North Campus faculty residences and will feature prominent women from different professions and walks of life. Potential speakers include politicians; artists; writers; scientists; women in spiritual life; and business owners and entrepreneurs. Speakers will share their stories with students in an informal way, opening up faculty-facilitated discussions about gender, leadership, accomplishment, work-life balance, and mentorship. These talks may be interspersed with or supplemented by reading and discussion of recent writing on women and leadership.

Code: UNILWYL 1140
Title: Everyday Economics
Description: In this course, students will explore the surprising ways economics can shed light on the contemporary challenges we, as humans, face. There is no math in this course and no prior economics experience is needed – just come with curiosity and an open mind! TED talks/videos and the framework of economics will be used to discuss questions ranging from how our minds work, to how we interact with others and the world around us.

Code: UNILWYL 1150
Title: Nature and Your Wellbeing
Description: Get ready for an adventure and prepare to embark on a journey through Cornell's beautiful campus in this one-of-a-kind course! From hidden gardens to majestic gorges, students will explore nature's wonders every week, building their toolkit of resources and knowledge about nature and well-being, exploring cultural perspectives on nature, and dismantling barriers to time in nature. With studies showing that nature boosts focus and reduces stress, expect this class to be an educational breath of fresh air. Whether a seasoned outdoor enthusiast or a nature newbie, be ready to foster your connection with nature!

Code: UNILWYL 1156
Title: Optimizing Your First Year Experience: Queer Identities and Beyond
Description: Optimizing Your First Year Experience: Queer Identities & Beyond is designed to provide community, education and supportive matriculation for our LGBTQIA+ and ally identifying students at Cornell University who are connected to Loving House in their first year. This course will provide support to students as they navigate the ambiguity that arises from their transition to college. This course will promote and encourage self-exploration of your queer identities, ways to be successful at Cornell and beyond while keeping in mind the importance your identity plays into your experience as a student and as a global citizen. This course will look at the historical context of the LGBTQIA+ community and how that interacts with the queer experience.

Code: UNILWYL 1190
Title: Election 2024: Finding Your Voice
Description: The US Presidential Election is a complex process with sweeping social, cultural, and economic implications. This course is designed to demystify the election process, to inform about key policy implications, and to empower students to understand the process and make informed decisions. This course combines small group discussion with North Campus-wide events, and it will help students build skills in public speaking and communicating about difficult topics.

Code: UNILWYL 1402
Title: Rose Scholars Program
Description: Rose Scholars program is an interdisciplinary course available only to residents of Flora Rose House. The program requires weekly participation in one of about five guided trips, workshops, discussions, lectures, and performances in social sciences, natural sciences, arts, humanities, and other fields. Participants reflect on their experiences with weekly digital media postings. The program is designed to introduce participants to the breadth of intellectual resources and activities on the Cornell campus and in the nearby community.

Code: UNILWYL 1404
Title: Cook Conversations and Community Engagement: Bridging Self and World
Description: This interdisciplinary course serves as a gateway for engagement in the Alice Cook House living and learning community, which is part of the West Campus House System. This guest speaker series is an informal way to interact with Cornell faculty and administrative leaders, and dialogue with visitors to who leads a conversation on a topic or passion that is dear to them. From discussions with faculty about their research and career paths to understanding the inner workings of Cornell Dining, there is something for everyone in this course. Each week features a different guest speaker and these intimate and informal conversations are designed to cover a breadth of topics that allow students to explore fields in which they have no specific background knowledge. As such, the topics are as varied and stimulating as the extraordinary lives and minds of those who come to chat with students about the things they care most about. Spaces (both physical and digital) will be provided for students to engage in informal discussions with Cornell faculty members, other invited speakers, and each other. The goal is to provide a platform for critical thinking and reflection within and beyond the boundaries of one's own discipline(s). Join House Professor-Dean Chantal Thomas in informal conversations on a range of interesting issues that shape our lives.

Code: UNILWYL 1405
Title: Bridging Disciplines: Active Citizens at Cook House
Description: Bridging Disciplines is a course requirement for the Active Citizens program at Alice Cook House. One pillar of active citizenship is learning about different academic disciplines and gaining a sense of the questions being asked and the research being done currently on the Cornell campus. This weekly informal discussion series brings together speakers from across departments to talk with undergraduate students about their research at Cornell. Cook House residents who are not in the Active Citizens program may attend the class on a drop-in basis.

Code: UNILWYL 1406
Title: Bethe Ansatz: What Makes a Fulfilled Life
Description: On a weekly basis, Bethe Ansatz brings together students, Cornell faculty, and other distinguished guests for informal, substantive engagement around a wide range of issues and endeavors: intellectual, cultural, artistic, scientific, moral, social, and political. Weekly seminar meetings, chaired by the instructor, will feature a guest who is typically a member of the Cornell faculty, a visiting professor, or other visiting scientist, scholar, artist, or public figure. The conversational format, which encourages discussion and interaction, allows students to discover for themselves the intrinsic interest and reward of a life characterized by broad, vital intellectual curiosity and engagement.

Code: UNILWYL 1408
Title: Carl Becker Café
Description: The café series is a weekly informal discussion held every Wednesday evening. The café features guest speakers who share their experience and expertise and often speak to challenging issues of our time. Our guests are eloquent, committed people leading very interesting lives. Hosted in the Becker House Professor's apartment, at café you'll enjoy great conversation in a relaxed environment with coffee and treats provided! You may join the café on a drop-in basis or take it as a 1-credit S/U course.

Code: UNILWYL 1409
Title: Stress Less, Do More: Embrace the Science of Happiness for a Calmer Student Life
Description: This is an experiential learning course in which students are introduced to evidence-based strategies to enhance their well-being. By engaging students in hands-on experiences and reflection, students increase self-awareness and gain insight into specific practices that support their well-being. A focus of the course will be the intersection of productivity (e.g., effective study habits) and psychological well-being. Material will be drawn heavily from the field of positive psychology.

Code: UNILWYL 1414
Title: Charting Your Career Pathway
Description: No description available.

Code: UNILWYL 1420
Title: Sexual Citizenship
Description: Using a public health approach, "Sexual Citizenship" draws on the Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation (SHIFT) study from Columbia University and the work of Jennifer Hirsh and Seamus Kahn, as well as the Sexual Assault and Related Misconduct (SARM) survey data from Cornell University, to explore the social ecosystem that makes sexual assault on college campuses a common experience. Using a framework that introduces the concepts of "sexual projects," "sexual citizenship," and "sexual geographies," we will explore the role of physical spaces, peers, and social and cultural influences that shape students' experiences and interpretations of both sex and sexual assault. A focus for the course will be individuals' agency, culture change and 'bright spots' (what is working, what is positive).

Code: UNILWYL 1515
Title: Dialogue Across Political Differences
Description: This course will be a space for genuine conversation about and across political differences. Throughout the course, students will connect with themselves and others about who they are, what they believe, and how they act as agents within political systems. They will: reflect on how our political identities are shaped and how they connect with social identities; examine political beliefs and opinions around current policy conflicts; and explore different forms of political engagement. Throughout the course participants will gain skills for communicating effectively across differences, reflect on the impact of engaging with others whose political perspectives are different from their own, and work collaboratively to foster a "brave space" where curiosity and a willingness to understand are promoted.

Code: UNILWYL 1520
Title: Using the Power of Food to Confront Climate Change
Description: This course will help students use the power of food to help make climate change relevant to others. We all eat, it's all changing and research shows that people want to know more about climate change impacts on their food. The course includes an overview of climate change science, the food system, the many ways our food is changing, how to communicate about climate change and change behaviors, a climate change dining experience, and what needs to be done to keep our favorite foods on the menu. And coincidentally, help keep our planet livable.

