Code: VTMED 5100
Title: The Animal Body (Foundation Course I)
Description: Designed to enable students to understand the principles of veterinary anatomy at the gross, microscopic, and ultrastructural levels. Emphasizes developmental anatomy to the extent that it reflects determination of adult form and species differences. Radiologic and related imaging techniques are used throughout the course to assist in the understanding of normal structural anatomy. Understanding of the anatomic basis of common surgical procedures is achieved during the various dissection procedures. The course is based on tutorials with significant emphasis on practical laboratories. Lectures and modules complement student learning.

Code: VTMED 5200
Title: Cell Biology and Genetics (Foundation Course II)
Description: Designed to develop an appreciation of the molecular and cellular basis of animal health and disease. Students gain an understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate cell function, the molecular signaling processes that form the basis of integrated function and the response to disease, and the mechanisms underlying inherited traits and genetic disease. Emphasis is placed on defining and characterizing normal cell function and on understanding how mutations in specific genes promote disease. The course will be divided into three complementary sections: Principles of Cell Biology and Medical Genetics, Principles of Cell Signaling, and a Focus on the Cell Biology of Cancer. Materials covered early in the course will form the foundation for later discussion. Throughout the course, clinical cases are utilized to illustrate the concepts presented.

Code: VTMED 5210
Title: Fundamentals of General Pathology
Description: Building on the knowledge of normal anatomy and histology presented in VTMED 5100, this course emphasizes recognition of alterations on tissue architecture at the gross and microscopic level as well as clinical laboratory data. Students will learn to use appropriate terminology to describe and interpret lesions as well as trace the sub cellular alterations that lead to these alteration. The goal of this course is to allow students to recognize basic tissue reactions to injury and begin to apply this knowledge to clinical situations.Building on the knowledge of normal anatomy and histology presented in VTMED 5100, this course emphasizes recognition of alterations on tissue architecture at the gross and microscopic level. Students will learn to use appropriate terminology to describe and interpret lesions as well as trace the sub cellular alterations that lead to these alteration. The goal of this course is to allow students to recognize basic tissue reactions to injury and begin to apply this knowledge to clinical situations.

Code: VTMED 5310
Title: Function and Dysfunction: Part II (Foundation Course IIIb)
Description: Continuation of VTMED 5300.

Code: VTMED 5400
Title: Host, Agent, and Defense (Foundation Course IV)
Description: This course seeks to develop an understanding of the interplay between the Immunological system of the host and the most significant bacterial and viral agents that cause disease in animals.  Lectures focus primarily on adaptive and innate immunity, as well as bacterial and viral pathogens and the diseases they cause.  Autoimmunity, epidemiological methods to investigate infectious disease at the herd and single animal levels, and techniques and tools to control infectious disease are also important components of the course.  In the laboratory, animals are used to illustrate some aspects of infectious diseases.

Code: VTMED 5410
Title: Veterinary Parasitology
Description: Provides a basic introduction to animal parasites of veterinary importance, concentrating mainly on the biology, control, and diagnosis of protozoan and metazoan parasites.  Emphasizes parasites representative of significant disease processes or of significant clinical importance to veterinarians.  Elaborates on the biology and pathogenesis of these major pathogens with the ultimate goal being to maximize the recognition of the major disease manifestations induced by the different groups of organisms.  Laboratories stress certain aspects of some important parasite groups.

Code: VTMED 5510
Title: Animal Health and Disease: Part II
Description: Continuation of VTMED 5500 topics include endocrinology, hematology, anesthesia, surgery, urology, dentistry, gastrointestinal diseases, liver diseases, theriogenology, oncology, exotics, miscellaneous, emergency and critical care, primary care.

Code: VTMED 5600
Title: Ambulatory and Production Medicine
Description: Clinical service rotation in which students accompany ambulatory clinicians on farm and stable calls and learn the skills and procedures necessary for operation of a modern veterinary practice offering primary care to large animal clients. Routine herd health visits are conducted for cattle, horses, sheep, goats, and swine. Reproductive evaluations (including pregnancy and fertility examinations), nutritional evaluation, and disease prevention are stressed. Herd health programs also include vaccinations, parasite control, mastitis prevention, and routine procedures. With appropriate herds, analysis of computerized performance data is conducted and discussed with the owner. In addition to assisting with routine scheduled work, students participate in diagnosis and medical or surgical treatment of ill or injured animals. This includes rotating assignments for night and weekend duty.

Code: VTMED 5601
Title: Small Animal Community Practice
Description: Our community practice, housed in a stand-alone facility as of June 2018, offers full services for our patients of all life stages including preventive medicine, radiology, dentistry, and surgery. Our primary care practice is designed to provide our clinical year students with experience in appointments, procedures, surgery, client communications, and cloud-based electronic medical records to prepare them as entry level veterinarians upon graduation from the CUCVM. The goals and design of the Small Animal Community Practice are to model a non-academic general practice setting where students act as primary case clinicians collecting histories, performing physical exams, assessing their patients, and creating diagnostic and therapeutic plans individualized to a given patient and client. Student clinicians are supervised by rotation faculty and supported by licensed veterinary technicians.

Code: VTMED 5602
Title: Small Animal Medicine
Description: Structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of small animal medicine.  The course is conducted in the Companion Animal Hospital of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students interact directly with clients presenting their pets for primary or referral medical care.  Under the supervision of the clinical faculty and staff, the students are expected to formulate and carry out plans for the diagnostic evaluation and medical management of these patients.

Code: VTMED 5603
Title: Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery Service
Description: Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of soft tissue surgery within the companion animal hospital. Students participate in morning and evening patient rounds, appointments, clinical decision making (diagnostics, medical and surgical interventions), and daily patient care under the direction of the faculty and house officers of the surgery service. Students are afforded the opportunity to assist and observe in the operating room. Patient care, client communication, goal-oriented decision making, and an introduction to abdominal surgery are emphasized.Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of soft tissue surgery within the companion animal hospital. Students participate in morning and evening patient rounds, appointments, clinical decision making (diagnostics, medical and surgical interventions), and daily patient care under the direction of the faculty and house officers of the surgery service. Students are afforded the opportunity to assist and observe in the operating room. Patient care, client communication, a variety of treatment options to fit different real-world scenarios and an introduction to abdominal surgery are emphasized.

Code: VTMED 5604
Title: Large Animal Medicine Service
Description: Students assigned to this service participate with the faculty, technicians, and residents of the Large Animal Medicine service in the diagnosis and care of patients.  The goal of this course is for students to acquire knowledge and skills in history taking, physical examination, selection and completion of appropriate ancillary tests, diagnosis, treatment plan, and patient care.  Daily rounds and discussions are used to monitor patient progress and further educate students. If time allows, sit-down rounds to discuss medical disorders are provided.

Code: VTMED 5605
Title: Large Animal Surgery
Description: Clinical rotation structured to provide supervised clinical experience in the practice of large animal surgery. Under the direction of faculty and house staff, students participate in the diagnosis, surgical treatment, and care of patients presented to the Equine and Farm Animal Hospital. Training through patient care is supplemented by formal rounds and didactic instruction.

Code: VTMED 5606
Title: Anesthesiology Service
Description: The course is designed to provide clinical experience in the use of anesthetics in small companion animals, horses, and farm animals. Students participate in selecting suitable anesthetic techniques for patients in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals and then implement those techniques under the supervision of faculty and residents. The goal is for students to learn the skills and the thought processes necessary to perform safe anesthesia in a modern veterinary practice and to provide perioperative analgesia. Students planning to enter equine, production, or mixed animal practice who elect to take a second anesthesia rotation can choose to spend this rotation exclusively in the Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals.

Code: VTMED 5607
Title: Dermatology Service
Description: During this clinical rotation, students participate in the diagnosis and management of skin disorders in small and large animals. Patients are examined by appointment and through consultation with other hospital services. Mandatory rounds are conducted either in-person or through recordings as determined by the rotation's service chief. Quizzes may be given at the discretion of the service chief to assess dermatology knowledge and progress.

Code: VTMED 5608
Title: Ophthalmology Service
Description: A large inpatient and outpatient referral case load plus numerous inpatient consultations for other hospital services allow students to become confident acquiring the beginning skills needed for diagnostic ophthalmology. Students perform many routine ophthalmic diagnostic tests (Schirmer tear testing, fluorescein staining, tonometry) and learn and gain confidence using indirect ophthalmoscopes, slit lamps, and tonometers.  Students are introduced to other ocular diagnostic tests, including culture, cytology, ultrasound, as well as more advanced diagnostic modalities according to the caseload. The rotation provides students an opportunity to observe common and uncommon therapeutic and surgical procedures. Many of the ophthalmology cases are complex referral cases but adequate routine case material is presented to prepare students for the common eye problems seen in veterinary practice.  A competent ocular examination is the goal of this rotation.

Code: VTMED 5609
Title: Pathology Service
Description: The pathology rotation strives to integrate gross pathology with other diagnostic modalities.  Students will work in groups of four to six for the two week rotation performing necropsies on mammals, birds, exotic species, and laboratory animals under the guidance of anatomic pathology faculty and residents.  Students will prepare written reports of the necropsies performed and discuss the findings at daily morning rounds. Students will also be instructed by faculty of the Animal Health Diagnostic Center with expertise in ancillary diagnostic techniques.  Students are expected to learn to use diagnostic testing regimens as integral parts of comprehensive diagnostic and therapeutic plans.  Instruction will consist primarily of the discussion of clinical cases with emphasis on laboratory diagnostics.  Students are expected to lead and participate in these discussions and will be evaluated on their ability to do so.

Code: VTMED 5610
Title: Radiology Service
Description: A two-week clinical experience in the imaging section of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students use radiographic, ultrasonographic, CT, MRI, and nuclear medicine imaging techniques to evaluate animal patients under treatment in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.  Students obtain and interpret radiographic and ultrasonographic studies with guidance from radiology faculty, residents and technical staff.  On-line teaching materials  are used to familiarize students with radiographic and  cross-sectional imaging examples of common diseases of large and small animal species.  Small-group discussions are included to present and discuss the teaching files and current cases, in addition to the safe use of x-ray producing equipment.

Code: VTMED 5611
Title: Small Animal Clinical Emergency and Critical Care Medicine
Description: Management of both emergent and critical cases represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine. The focus of this clinical rotation will be the development of a knowledge base and a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to perform adequately in these areas, within a structured format. These skills will include the appropriate evaluation (triage) and stabilization of emergency patients, the management of post-operative and other critical patients, and sensitive and effective client communication. Participants access relevant information from various sources related to emergency and critical care medicine and understand and apply these principles to clinical cases. Students will participate in the management of incoming emergency cases as well as having primary patient care responsibilities in both intensive care and intermediate care units. Students will work closely with interns, residents, technicians, and faculty on the Emergency & Critical Care Service to become familiar with technical and nursing procedures as well as to develop clinical skills and a systematic approach to clinical cases.

Code: VTMED 5612
Title: Fourth-Year Seminar
Description: This required course gives each senior student the responsibility and opportunity of selecting and studying a disease entity on the basis of a case or series of cases, or to conduct a short-term, clinically oriented research project under the direction of a faculty member.  In either instance, an oral report will be presented at a weekly seminar.  A written report is also submitted within 2 weeks after the seminar.  All participants are encouraged to foster an atmosphere in which discussion, exchange of ideas, and the airing of controversial opinions might flourish. Veterinary students of all four classes and all faculty and staff members are also invited and encouraged to attend.

Code: VTMED 5613
Title: Small Animal Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Service
Description: Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of orthopedic surgery and medicine within a hospital environment. Students participate in rounds; diagnostic techniques; planning of therapy; and daily care of dogs and cats under the direction of an intern, surgical residents, and/or faculty. Students assist experienced surgeons in the operating room. Client communications and the basics of orthopedics in general practice are emphasized. Students are expected to be able to successfully perform an orthopedic examination and localize the lameness by the end of the rotation.Clinical service rotation that exposes the student to the practice of orthopedic surgery and medicine under hospital conditions. Students participate in rounds; diagnostic techniques; planning of therapy; and daily care of dogs and cats under the direction of an intern, surgical residents in training, and faculty. Students assist experienced surgeons in the operating room. Client communications and the basics of orthopedics in general practice are emphasized. Students are expected to be able to successfully perform an orthopedic examination and localize the lameness by the end of the rotation.

Code: VTMED 5701
Title: Veterinary Practice: Physical Examination (Foundation Course VIIa)
Description: Complements and augments material learned in VTMED 5100  (Foundation Course  I - The Animal Body). Complements and augments material learned in Foundation Course  I - The Animal Body. The class is divided into lab groups which meet for 4-5 hours each week during the first 11 weeks of the fall semester. This live animal laboratory course teaches the skills of observation, auscultation, palpation, and percussion working with cows, horses, dogs and cats. The body systems are examined sequentially and follow the order of study in Foundation Course I.

Code: VTMED 5704
Title: Veterinary Practice: Introduction to Clinical Procedures (Foundation Course VIId)
Description: The laboratory component of the course builds on the Core Clinical Skills taught in previous sections of block VII. Communication Exercises are a significant component of the course. In these small group exercises, students use core communication skills taught in a previous section of block VII to work through case scenarios with faculty and simulated clients. An introduction to nutrition is provided via lectures on energetics, vitamins and minerals, pet food labels, feeds, and feeding practices.

Code: VTMED 5706
Title: Veterinary Practice: Professional Development (Foundation Course VIIf)
Description: In this course, students examine governmental regulation of the veterinary profession, including proper drug usage, extra label drug use (FDA), controlled substances (DEA), environmental issues (EPA), and biosecurity measures for the practicing DVM.  The course includes a review of communication skills important for students as they enter their clinical rotations; communication training culminates in small group Communication Exercises in which students work through a clinical case working with a programmable robotic dog patient and simulated clients.  Building on material presented in the first-year curriculum, additional core career development and personal financial planning information is presented in this course. Topics include financial planning for the new graduate, contract law and negotiation, debt repayment, job search and interview skills.

Code: VTMED 6423
Title: Clinical Diagnostic Parasitology
Description: The course is intended to give students experience in diagnosing parasitic infections by performing appropriate parasitological testing methods on clinical samples from patients on their rotation. Students evaluate the test results in terms of treatment or management of the infections. If clinical specimens are not available, appropriate materials are provided for study and evaluation. Ambulatory students typically do qualitative and perhaps quantitative flotations on samples from large animal cases they have encountered that week. In CPS, one hour is spent testing samples from current dog and cat patients, while a second hour is devoted to a discussion of the treatment of common endo-and ecto-parasites. Pathology students typically examine and identify intact parasites they retrieved from various organs at necropsy and review common parasites of hosts encountered. This course is considered to be a logical extension to Foundation Course IV, Host, Agent, and Defense, and is expected to build on the didactic material presented in Large and Small Animal Parasitology.

Code: VTMED 6436
Title: Directing Community Practice
Description: The format is a both peer-mentored and service-learning which takes place in a clinical setting. Eight student directors organize and supervise bimonthly healthy pet clinics where they mentor other, less experienced students to provide preventative veterinary care to animals of under served citizens in the Ithaca community.

Code: VTMED 6530
Title: Llama Tutorial
Description: Autotutorial or group tutorial course covering common problems of llamas and alpacas. Participants are provided with study guides consisting of brief case descriptions and sample study questions. Reference is made to textbooks and journal articles to assist students in finding the answers to the questions efficiently. Grading is based on an oral exam.

Code: VTMED 6531
Title: Poisonous Plants
Description: Field trips demonstrate toxic plants growing in natural or cultivated settings.  Lectures address economically important poisonous plants native to the United States.  Information presented includes plant identification, natural habitat, toxic principles, clinical signs of toxicosis, and treatment and prevention of poisoning in animals.  Some of the major toxic principles found in plants and considered in detail in the course are nitrates, cyanide, oxalates, photodynamic agents, alkaloids, and mycotoxins.

Code: VTMED 6601
Title: Cardiology Service
Description: Provides students with the opportunity to put into practice what they have learned in the foundation years.  The management of the most common cardiac diseases are emphasized including congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and secondary cardiac diseases.  All species are examined, large and small, although the majority are small animals.  Diagnostics including cardiovascular physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography, and echocardiography are taught.  The rotation includes clinical work, didactic teaching, and self-initiated digging for information.

Code: VTMED 6602
Title: Laboratory Animal Medicine
Description: Laboratory animal medicine is a diverse field in which veterinarians directly impact the well-being of animals used in research, teaching and testing. Laboratory animal veterinarians assist researchers in achieving their goals, while encouraging replacement, reduction, and refinement of animal use. Treatment of animals and preparation of preventive medicine programs requires the laboratory animal veterinarian to have knowledge of the biology and comparative medicine of a wide variety of species. It is also essential for laboratory animal veterinarians to have knowledge of research methodologies, and animal models of disease as well as a good understanding of state and federal regulations, and guidelines governing the use of animals. In addition, occupational health and safety, and animal facility design are important parts of an institutional animal care program, to which laboratory animal veterinarians have input. The diversity of species, and the novel circumstances that arise regularly in this field make laboratory animal medicine an exciting and unique discipline of veterinary medicine. This rotation is an introduction to the specialty of laboratory animal medicine.  Students are exposed to all aspects of a laboratory animal veterinarian's role. Activities include but are not limited to: accompanying laboratory animal veterinarians on clinical rounds of Cornell University's research animal facilities; participating in diagnostic and preventive medicine plans; attending review sessions on the biology, medicine, pathology, husbandry of traditional and non-traditional lab animal species; incorporating information on current legislation regulating the care and use of research animals; and exposure to various research activities on the Cornell University Campus.

Code: VTMED 6605
Title: Special Opportunities in Clinical Veterinary Medicine
Description: Provides opportunities for students who have completed the prerequisites to explore professional areas of clinical interest that are either not available or expand upon the veterinary curriculum. Please consult the VTMED 6605 syllabus for additional information.

Code: VTMED 6608
Title: Clinical Oncology
Description: Management and prevention of cancer in companion animals represents a significant component of the practice of veterinary medicine.  The focus of this clinical rotation is the development of a comprehensive set of skills necessary for a veterinarian to become an advocate for the client/patient with cancer.  These skills include appropriate initial evaluation of animals with cancer; sensitive and effective client and referring veterinarian communication; ability to access relevant information from numerous sources related to cancer management;and ability to  understand and apply principles of surgical, medical and radiation oncology as well as techniques specifically related to minimize pain and treatment-related side effects in cancer patients.

Code: VTMED 6613
Title: Equine Health Management Rotation
Description: The objective of the Equine Health Management Rotation is to prepare students for diagnosing and treating common conditions of the horse in practice, whether it be exclusively equine or a mixed practice.  The course places an emphasis on dentistry, podiatry, deworming, vaccination, and basic veterinary procedures. Many hands-on laboratories are taught on Cornell-owned horses.  In addition, the course strives to provide information regarding equine veterinary business and the equine industry with guest speakers.  The strengths of this course are the hands-on laboratories and ability to hone your technical skills, along with the interaction with practicing equine veterinarians.The objective of the Equine Specialty Rotation is to prepare students for diagnosing and treating common conditions of the horse in practice, whether it be exclusively equine or a mixed practice.  The course places an emphasis on dentistry, podiatry, deworming, vaccination, and basic veterinary procedures which are taught on Cornell-owned horses.  In addition, the course strives to provide information regarding equine veterinary business and the equine industry with guest speakers.  The strengths of this course are the hands-on laboratories and ability to hone your technical skills, along with the interaction with practicing equine veterinarians.

Code: VTMED 6614
Title: Large Animal Emergency and Critical Care
Description: The evaluation and management of critical patients and other emergency problems represents a significant component of the practice of large animal veterinary medicine.  As emergency cases are frequently presented to these practitioners, it is imperative such veterinarians are well prepared.  The focus of this clinical rotation is for students to acquire the knowledge, skills and thought processes necessary to triage large animal emergencies and manage critical patients.  These skills include the appropriate evaluation, stabilization and treatment of emergency patients, and the management of post-operative cases and other critical patients.  Participants access relevant information from various sources related to emergency and critical care medicine and surgery in an effort to understand and apply these principles to clinical cases.  Participants primarily have patient care responsibilities in the Large Animal Intensive Care Unit of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals and work closely with technicians and clinicians to develop familiarity with technical and nursing procedures.  In addition, students will learn common veterinary skills and techniques using teaching animals when time permits.  The large animal emergency and critical care rotation is primarily an after-hours rotation.

Code: VTMED 6615
Title: Special Topics in Ambulatory and Production-Animal Medicine
Description: Provides specialized opportunity in Production Medicine.  Consists of participation in an experience designed to improve knowledge and skills regarding producation systems. Examples of focus areas include livestock production medicine, poultry and fish farming, milk quality assessment, small ruminant medicine, herd management experience, and specialized diagnostic testing. This course is availble in 2 week increments after application to the course leader at least one month in advance of the rotation. Presentation of the completed expereince to a student club or in Ambulatory rounds is required.

Code: VTMED 6616
Title: Small Animal Dentistry and Oral Surgery
Description: This rotation is designed to introduce students to clinical small animal dentistry and oral surgery.  By the end of the rotation, students are expected to be capable of:  performing a thorough oral examination, obtaining and interpreting intraoral radiographs, discussing appropriate therapeutic options, performing basic periodontal procedures and simple and surgical extractions, and administering pertinent regional nerve blocks.

Code: VTMED 6618
Title: Clinical Neurology
Description: The Neurology/Neurosurgery (NNS) clinical rotation at Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine is a 2 week time period in which the student is directly involved in the diagnosis, management and treatment of animals with a diverse array of neurologic disorders. Gait evaluation and the neurological examination are skills that can be applied to any species and these are emphasized over the rotation. During the rotation students will have multiple opportunities to practice and get feedback on their neurological examinations. This allows students time and practice so that they can apply what they have learned to whichever species they intend to work with following graduation. We have previously discussed other species with neurological conditions and examinations when students have made their interests known. Although clinics is primarily devoted to dogs and cats, we occasionally consult with other services such as large animal medicine and surgery and exotics. The student is expected to assist in all aspects of the rotation, including case rounds, patient receiving, medical and surgical treatments, client communication, and record-keeping. In addition to learning through clinical exposure, the student will be taught principles of clinical neurology during "sit-down" topic rounds. The primary goal of the rotation for the student is for the student to become comfortable and confident in performing and correctly interpreting the neurologic examination in a clinical setting.  A secondary goal is the accumulation and application of practical clinical knowledge pertaining to neurologic diseases of companion animals. To do this effectively we discuss our clinical approach to cases so that students can practice their clinical decision making skills and approach to neurological patients.

Code: VTMED 6619
Title: Clinical Pathology Rotation
Description: This two-week course consolidates principles of clinical pathology and provides students with additional experience in using clinical pathology data to help with interpretation, diagnosis and management of clinical cases, through the use of archived and current clinical cases. Students will become more experienced and confident in examining blood and cytology smears, interpreting electrophoretogram results and working through clinical case material. Students are required to interpret a "mystery" slide (hematology or cytology) and case with clinical pathologic data in the last week of the rotation. There is substantial interaction with clinical pathology faculty, staff and residents. The case material can be somewhat tailored to the students' areas of interest.

Code: VTMED 6623
Title: Clinical Rotation in Shelter Medicine: Principles and Practice
Description: This clinical rotation embedded in SPCA of Tompkins County with travel to other area shelters. It exposes students to the principles and practice of veterinary medicine in a real animal shelter setting. Students will provide direct veterinary medical care to individual shelter animals and spend time learning and applying population health principles. These principles include infectious disease diagnosis, treatment, and management; shelter wellness and protocol-based medicine; shelter anesthesia, high-quality, high-volume spay-neuter and dentistry; shelter animal behavioral assessment, pharmaceuticals and modification, low-stress animal handling, and population and capacity planning. Cases vary with season and shelter intake. The daily schedule includes topic-based online modules, clinical work, and topic rounds. Students will also be expected to complete on-line webinars and assignments to round out their learning, and to prepare and give a live CE presentation for area shelter personnel. Although spay/neuter is certainly part of shelter medicine and will be part of this rotation, this is NOT a spay/neuter intensive rotation; caseload depends on the needs of the shelter(s). Weekend duty is optional and as-needed.This clinical rotation embedded in SPCA of Tompkins County exposes students to the principles and practice of veterinary medicine in a real animal shelter setting. While students will provide direct veterinary medical care to individual shelter animals, students will also spend time learning and applying population health principles. These principles include infectious disease diagnosis, treatment, and management; shelter wellness and protocol-based medicine; shelter anesthesia, high-quality, high-volume spay-neuter and dentistry; shelter animal behavioral assessment, pharmaceuticals and modification, low-stress animal handling, and population and capacity planning. Cases vary with season and shelter intake. The daily schedule includes topic-based online modules, clinical work, and topic rounds. Students will also be expected to complete several on-line webinars and assignments to round out their learning. Although spay/neuter is certainly part of shelter medicine and will be part of this rotation, this is NOT a spay/neuter intensive rotation; caseload will depend on the needs of the shelter(s). Week-end duty is optional and as-needed.

Code: VTMED 6624
Title: Primary Care Surgery Service
Description: The Primary Care Surgery service is a two-week rotation intended to provide students an opportunity to perform physical exams (with a focus on Fear Free technique) and surgical procedures in the context of general practice. The patients they treat and are ultimately responsible for, are adoptable shelter/rescue dogs and cats. Emphasis is placed on addressing patients from a comprehensive perspective: intake to discharge. Student clinicians are accountable for all peri-operative care. By the end of the rotation, students will have had the opportunity to improve physical exam skills, surgical competence, confidence, and efficiency within the limits of accepted technique. Student clinicians are highly encouraged to experience different methods of performing key skills. There is a significant focus on formulating appropriate treatment plans, the ergonomics of tying good knots, surgical technique as a primary care surgeon, and pain/anxiety management. Close attention is placed on writing thorough medical records and on client communication skills. Student surgeons work on critical decision making and collaboration with their team. Anesthesia support is provided by licensed veterinary technicians from the Anesthesia Service to ensure continuity in the methods of induction, patient monitoring, and recovery.

Code: VTMED 6628
Title: Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation
Description: The Clinical Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation Service focusses heavily on mobility and function and sees a variety of patients including primary lameness workups, post-surgical rehabilitation, sport dog conditioning, and geriatric care.  Foundation coursework in both physiology and musculoskeletal anatomy are applied to clinical cases from movement to healing to pain control.  Lameness workups include orthopedic and neurological examinations as well as functional assessment, objective gait analysis, and pain scoring.  Various modalities including but not limited to water therapy to neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), therapeutic laser, acupuncture, extracorporeal shockwave, therapeutic ultrasound, and regenerative medicine will be introduced and incorporated as indicated.  The course will foster a unique clinical thought processes as a physical therapist to identify impairments and functional deficits, allowing for the development of appropriate physiotherapy goals and exercises.

Code: VTMED 6629
Title: Wildlife Medicine
Description: This rotation will expose students to the practice of wildlife medicine in a busy hospital setting with the guidance and mentorship of faculty, zoological medicine interns and residents, and four licensed wildlife technicians. Active participation in case management will provide the student with abundant hands-on experience in basic general clinical skills applicable to any species, an understanding of common native wildlife diseases and their management, as well as involvement in advanced wildlife medicine and surgery techniques. Students of any practice/career interest are welcome, and no prior wildlife experience is necessary. The rotation will be tailored to each student's career goals and experience level. No on-call duty is required.

Code: VTMED 6724
Title: Senior Seminar
Description: Attendance at 10 of the senior seminar sessions presented during the semester is required for completion of this course. Selected class members will serve as moderators for the senior seminar presentations. Other students will take brief on-line quizzes covering the information supplied in the seminars for the week. All students will pose questions on-line to the seniors presenting the seminars.

Code: VTMED 6745
Title: One Health: Conservation with Communities- Seminars
Description: "Conversations in Conservation" is a fall semester debriefing course in with students will reflect and expand learning through presentations of projects (seminars) and experiences, case-directed discussions using experiential journal notes and topical readings from relevant literature, and student-led discussion of impacts/solutions to local problems, with participation of listed faculty and community partners.

Code: VTMED 6748
Title: Expanding Horizons
Description: The Expanding Horizons course offers Cornell veterinary students an opportunity to gain experience in international veterinary medicine and engage in novel veterinary medicine experiences outside of the United States. Students spend the summer (typically 8-10 weeks) or clinical blocks (6 weeks) participating in an independent veterinary research project or veterinary experience in a foreign country. Students are responsible for identifying contacts in the country of interest, developing a project idea, and submitting a written project proposal to the International Experiences Committee for consideration. College faculty and the Office of Student and Academic Services may assist and advise students on project development and preparation for the experience. Students in the course will be assessed through participation in virtual, asynchronous course activities.

Code: VTMED 6778
Title: CVBE Capstone Part I
Description: This course intends to create an individual project-based experience in veterinary business that expands and incorporates the knowledge acquired through prerequisite courses that focus on financial literacy, personal and professional development, financial and organizational management, and entrepreneurship. Students who meet course prerequisites will apply for course enrollment directly to instructor by supplying project proposal. Course students will develop a project in collaboration with a CVBE stakeholder that will utilize and implement veterinary business and management skills. Students will complete their project in a manner that does not interfere with clinical responsibilities. Students will finalize their capstone experience through delineated deliverables.

Code: VTMED 6897
Title: Teaching Projects in Veterinary Medicine
Description: This is a variable credit course in which students contribute to the teaching of a course in the veterinary curriculum (VTMED). Student responsibilities may include providing instructional support in laboratories, preparing teaching material, giving presentations, providing feedback to students on assignments, grading, or performing other appropriate tasks. Students are assessed based on the quality of performance in their responsibilities. Students a required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they have accomplished and learned as a result of the teaching project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.

Code: VTMED 6898
Title: Special Projects in Veterinary Medicine
Description: Students work individually with a CVM faculty member to pursue an area of particular interest that is not part of the established curriculum. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the special project. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.

Code: VTMED 6899
Title: Research Projects in Veterinary Medicine
Description: Students work individually in the research environment of a CVM faculty member involved in veterinary or biomedical research. Specific course objectives and course content should be relevant to career interests in veterinary medicine and should reflect the expertise of the faculty. Students are required to submit a brief reflection summarizing what they accomplished and learned as a result of the research opportunity. Projects must be submitted via the online application process before the first day of the term.

